# Release instructions

Each Jaeger version is documented in a separate directory e.g. [content/docs/1.8/](./content/docs/1.8/). A special directory [content/docs/next-release/](./content/docs/next-release/) is reserved for the changes to be published as the next version. If you are adding documentation for features that are not yet released in the main Jaeger repository, add your changes to the `next-release` directory. If you're adding documentation for already released features, you may need to make the same change twice, i.e. in the most recent release (e.g. `1.8`) and in the `next-release` directories.

Before creating a new release:

  - Make sure all outstanding PRs for that version are merged to `next-release` directory.
  - Make sure the actual Jaeger release is done and Docker images for the new version are published.
  - If there are new Jaeger binaries or new storage options added to the release, make sure the CLI docs config file `data/cli/next-release/config.json` is updated accordingly (see below).
  - Make sure you have git remote `upstream` pointing to the official repository, e.g.
    `git remote add upstream git@github.com:jaegertracing/documentation.git`

Then create a release by pushing a tag corresponding to the jaegertracing/jaeger version `release-X.Y.Z`, e.g.

```shell
git tag release-1.12.0
git push upstream release-1.12.0
```

  - Wait for the CI job to create a pull request with the documentation changes for the new version.
  - Approve and merge that pull request.
  - Because the site is statically generated, the release is completed after the merge.

TODO: shouldn't the tag only specify major/minor, not patch? I don't think the process will work twice for the same major.minor

### Auto-generated documentation for CLI flags

The docs for the Jaeger CLI tools are generated by the automated release process described above using the Python script [`scripts/gen-cli-data.py`](./scripts/gen-cli-data.py). It uses the configuration file `data/cli/next-release/config.json` (automatically copied to `data/cli/${NEXT_VERSION}/config.json`) that describes which Jaeger binaries to include in the documentation, and which storage options each binary supports. The script invokes the `docs` command on the respective Docker images for each  binary and creates a set of YAML files under `data/cli/${NEXT_VERSION}/`, which are then used by the template engine to render the CLI docs.

