content/get-in-touch.md, before:

---
title: Getting in touch
---

## Via chat or email

Join our open online chat room [gitter.im/jaegertracing](https://gitter.im/jaegertracing/Lobby) or Google mail group [jaeger-tracing@googlegroups.com](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/jaeger-tracing).

## Bi-weekly project meetings

The Jaeger maintainers and contributors meet on a video call every other week, and everyone is welcome to join and participate, discuss their issues, present case studies. Agenda and meeting details [are in this Google doc][bi-weekly-call].

## Report issues on GitHub

Our GitHub org has many different repos, please make sure to pick the one appropriate for your issue.

* For general backend features or issues use the main repo [github.com/jaegertracing/jaeger](https://github.com/jaegertracing/jaeger).
* For frontend features or issues use [github.com/jaegertracing/jaeger-ui](https://github.com/jaegertracing/jaeger-ui).
* For features or issues with client libraries, pick the [corresponding repository](/docs/latest/client-libraries/#supported-libraries).

[bi-weekly-call]: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ZuBAwTJvQN7xkWVvEFXj5WU9_JmS5TPiNbxCJSvPqX0/

Commit message:

Add link to the jaeger project bi-weekly calendar (#453)
* Added the jaeger project bi-weekly calendar into the website

Signed-off-by: JennySimen <yakamjennifer@gmail.com>

* Adjusted the config file

Signed-off-by: JennySimen <yakamjennifer@gmail.com>

content/get-in-touch.md, after:

---
title: Getting in touch
---

## Via chat or email

Join our open online chat room [gitter.im/jaegertracing](https://gitter.im/jaegertracing/Lobby) or Google mail group [jaeger-tracing@googlegroups.com](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/jaeger-tracing).

## Bi-weekly project meetings

The Jaeger maintainers and contributors meet on a video call every other week, and everyone is welcome to join and participate, discuss their issues, present case studies. Agenda and meeting details [are in this Google doc][bi-weekly-call]
and information on our jaeger project bi-weekly meetings [are in this calendar][jaeger-project-calendar].
## Report issues on GitHub

Our GitHub org has many different repos, please make sure to pick the one appropriate for your issue.

* For general backend features or issues use the main repo [github.com/jaegertracing/jaeger](https://github.com/jaegertracing/jaeger).
* For frontend features or issues use [github.com/jaegertracing/jaeger-ui](https://github.com/jaegertracing/jaeger-ui).
* For features or issues with client libraries, pick the [corresponding repository](/docs/latest/client-libraries/#supported-libraries).

[bi-weekly-call]: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ZuBAwTJvQN7xkWVvEFXj5WU9_JmS5TPiNbxCJSvPqX0/
[jaeger-project-calendar]: https://calendar.google.com/calendar/u/0/embed?src=77a1bva4sn9cm822r8oa03l2j0@group.calendar.google.com
