content/docs/v1/1.71/deployment/frontend-ui.md, before:

---
title: Frontend/UI Configuration
navtitle: Frontend/UI
aliases: [../frontend-ui]
hasparent: true
weight: 7
---

## Configuration

Several aspects of the UI can be configured:

  * The Dependencies section can be enabled / configured
  * The [Monitor tab (aka: Service Performance Monitoring)](../spm/) can be enabled / configured
  * App analytics tracking can be enabled / configured (via Google Analytics or custom plugin)
  * Additional menu options can be added to the global nav
  * Search input limits can be configured

These options can be configured by a JSON configuration file. The `--query.ui-config` command line parameter of the query service must then be set to the path to the JSON file when the query service is started.

An example configuration file (see [complete schema here](https://github.com/jaegertracing/jaeger-ui/blob/main/packages/jaeger-ui/src/types/config.tsx)):

```json
{
  "dependencies": {
    "dagMaxNumServices": 200,
    "menuEnabled": true
  },
  "monitor": {
    "menuEnabled": true
  },
  "archiveEnabled": true,
  "tracking": {
    "gaID": "UA-000000-2",
    "trackErrors": true
  },
  "menu": [
    {
      "label": "About Jaeger",
      "items": [
        {
          "label": "GitHub",
          "url": "https://github.com/jaegertracing/jaeger"
        },
        {
          "label": "Docs",
          "url": "https://www.jaegertracing.io/docs/latest/"
        }
      ]
    }
  ],
  "search": {
    "maxLookback": {
      "label": "2 Days",
      "value": "2d"
    },
    "maxLimit": 1500
  },
  "linkPatterns": [{
    "type": "process",
    "key": "jaeger.version",
    "url": "https://github.com/jaegertracing/jaeger-client-java/releases/tag/#{jaeger.version}",
    "text": "Information about Jaeger release #{jaeger.version}"
  },
  {
    "type": "tags",
    "key": "uniqueId",
    "url": "https://mykibana.com/uniqueId=#{uniqueId}&traceId=#{trace.traceID}",
    "text": "Redirect to kibana to view log"
  },
  {
    "type": "traces",
    "url": "https://my-logs.server?from=#{startTime | add -60000000 | epoch_micros_to_date_iso}&to=#{endTime | add 60000000 | epoch_micros_to_date_iso}'",
    "text": "Redirect to kibana to view log with formatted dates"
  }]
}
```

### Dependencies

`dependencies.dagMaxNumServices` defines the maximum number of services allowed before the DAG dependency view is disabled. Default: `200`.

`dependencies.menuEnabled` enables (`true`) or disables (`false`) the dependencies menu button. Default: `true`.

### Monitor

`monitor.menuEnabled` enables (`true`) or disables (`false`) the Monitor menu button. Default: `false`.

### Archive Support

`archiveEnabled` enables (`true`) or disables (`false`) the archive traces button. Default: `false`. It requires a configuration of an archive storage in Query service. Archived traces are only accessible directly by ID, they are not searchable.

### App Analytics Tracking

`tracking.gaID` defines the Google Analytics tracking ID. This is required for Google Analytics tracking, and setting it to a non-`null` value enables Google Analytics tracking. Default: `null`.

`tracking.customWebAnalytics` defines a factory function for a custom tracking plugin (only when using Javascript-form of UI configuration).

`tracking.trackErrors` enables (`true`) or disables (`false`) error tracking. Errors can only be tracked if a valid analytics tracker is configured. Default: `true`.

For additional details on app analytics see the [tracking README](https://github.com/jaegertracing/jaeger-ui/blob/master/packages/jaeger-ui/src/utils/tracking/README.md) in the UI repo.

### Custom Menu Items

`menu` allows additional links to be added to the global nav. The additional links are right-aligned.

In the sample JSON config above, the configured menu will have a dropdown labeled "About Jaeger" with sub-options for "GitHub" and "Docs". The format for a link in the top right menu is as follows:

```json
{
  "label": "Some text here",
  "url": "https://example.com"
}
```

Links can either be members of the `menu` Array, directly, or they can be grouped into a dropdown menu option. The format for a group of links is:

```json
{
  "label": "Dropdown button",
  "items": [ ]
}
```

The `items` Array should contain one or more link configurations.

### Search Input Limit

The `search.maxLimit` configures the maximum results that the input let you search.

The `search.maxLookback` configures the maximum time before the present users can query for traces. The options in the Lookback dropdown greater than this value will not be shown.

Field | Description
------|------------
label | The text displayed in the search form dropdown
value | The value submitted in the search query if the label is selected

### Link Patterns

The `linkPatterns` node can be used to create links from fields displayed in the Jaeger UI.

Field | Description
------|------------
type  | The metadata section in which your link will be added: process, tags, logs, traces
key   | The name of tag/process/log attribute which value will be displayed as a link, this field is not necessary for type `traces`.
url   | The URL where the link should point to, it can be an external site or relative path in Jaeger UI
text  | The text displayed in the tooltip for the link

Both `url` and `text` can be defined as templates (i.e. using `#{field-name}`) where Jaeger UI will dynamically substitute values based on tags/logs/traces data.

For traces, the supported template fields are: `duration`, `endTime`, `startTime`, `traceName` and `traceID`.

Further, the trace template fields are available for substitution in process/logs/tags type when the trace template fields are prefixed with `trace.`. For example: `trace.traceID`, `trace.startTime`.

#### Formatting

In addition to interpolating fields into links, formatting functions can be used. The syntax is `#{field | function}` (eg `#{endTime | epoch_micros_to_date_iso}'`). Formatting functions can be chained together (eg `#{startTime | add 60000000 | epoch_micros_to_date_iso}`).

The available formatting functions and a description of their behavior are:

##### `epoch_micros_to_date_iso`

Format a date in microseconds since epoch to an ISO date time.

Example:
`#{endTime | epoch_micros_to_date_iso}`

##### `pad_start`

Pad the start of a string with a given character until the resulting string reaches the given length. Behavior is implemented by and thus matches javascript's [String.padStart](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String/padStart)

Arguments:

- `targetLength` (integer) - Desired length of the string after padding
- `padCharacter` (string) - String to pad the start of the input string with

Example: `#{traceID | pad_start 32 0}`

##### `add`

Add a value to another number. Can be positive or negative.

Arguments:

- `offset` (integer) - Value to add to the input number

Example: `#{startTime | add 1000000}`

## Embedded Mode

Starting with version 1.9, Jaeger UI provides an "embedded" layout mode which is intended to support integrating Jaeger UI into other applications. Currently (as of `v0`), the approach taken is to remove various UI elements from the page to make the UI better suited for space-constrained layouts.

The embedded mode is induced and configured via URL query parameters.

To enter embedded mode, the `uiEmbed=v0` query parameter and value must be added to the URL. For example, the following URL will show the trace with ID `abc123` in embedded mode:

```
http://localhost:16686/trace/abc123?uiEmbed=v0
```

`uiEmbed=v0` is required.

Further, for each supported page a button {{< rawhtml >}}<img src="/img/frontend-ui/embed-open-icon.png" style="width: 20px; height:20px;display:inline;" alt="Embed open window">{{< /rawhtml >}} is added that will open the non-embedded page in a new tab.

The following pages support embedded mode:

* Search Page
* Trace Page

### Search Page

To integrate the Search Trace Page to our application we have to indicate to the Jaeger UI that we want to use the embed mode with `uiEmbed=v0`.

For example:

```
http://localhost:16686/search?
    service=my-service&
    start=1543917759557000&
    end=1543921359557000&
    limit=20&
    lookback=1h&
    maxDuration&
    minDuration&
    uiEmbed=v0
```

[![Embed Search Traces](/img/frontend-ui/embed-search-traces.png)](/img/frontend-ui/embed-search-traces.png)

#### Configuration options

The following query parameter can be used to configure the layout of the search page :

* `uiSearchHideGraph=1` - disables the display of the scatter plot above the search results

```
http://localhost:16686/search?
    service=my-service&
    start=1543917759557000&
    end=1543921359557000&
    limit=20&
    lookback=1h&
    maxDuration&
    minDuration&
    uiEmbed=v0&
    uiSearchHideGraph=1
```

[![Embed Search Traces without Graph](/img/frontend-ui/embed-search-traces-hide-graph.png)](/img/frontend-ui/embed-search-traces-hide-graph.png)

### Trace Page


To integrate the Trace Page to our application we have to indicate to the Jaeger UI that we want to use the embed mode with `uiEmbed=v0`.

For example:

```sh
http://localhost:16686/trace/{trace-id}?uiEmbed=v0
```
[![Embed Trace view](/img/frontend-ui/embed-trace-view.png)](/img/frontend-ui/embed-trace-view.png)

If we have navigated to this view from the search traces page we'll have a button to go back to the results page.

[![Embed Trace view](/img/frontend-ui/embed-trace-view-with-back-button.png)](/img/frontend-ui/embed-trace-view-with-back-button.png)

#### Configuration options

The following query parameters can be used to configure the layout of the trace page :

* `uiTimelineCollapseTitle=1` causes the trace header to start out collapsed, which hides the summary and the minimap.

```
http://localhost:16686/trace/{trace-id}?
    uiEmbed=v0&
    uiTimelineCollapseTitle=1
```
[![Embed Trace view](/img/frontend-ui/embed-trace-view-with-collapse.png)](/img/frontend-ui/embed-trace-view-with-collapse.png)

* `uiTimelineHideMinimap=1` removes the minimap, entirely, regardless of whether the trace header is expanded or not.

```
http://localhost:16686/trace/{trace-id}?
    uiEmbed=v0&
    uiTimelineHideMinimap=1
```
[![Embed Trace view](/img/frontend-ui/embed-trace-view-with-hide-minimap.png)](/img/frontend-ui/embed-trace-view-with-hide-minimap.png)

* `uiTimelineHideSummary=1` - removes the trace summary information (number of services, etc.) entirely, regardless of whether the trace header is expanded or not.

```
http://localhost:16686/trace/{trace-id}?
    uiEmbed=v0&
    uiTimelineHideSummary=1
```
[![Embed Trace view](/img/frontend-ui/embed-trace-view-with-hide-summary.png)](/img/frontend-ui/embed-trace-view-with-hide-summary.png)

We can also combine the options:
```
http://localhost:16686/trace/{trace-id}?
    uiEmbed=v0&
    uiTimelineHideMinimap=1&
    uiTimelineHideSummary=1
```
[![Embed Trace view](/img/frontend-ui/embed-trace-view-with-hide-details-and-hide-minimap.png)](/img/frontend-ui/embed-trace-view-with-hide-details-and-hide-minimap.png)

Commit message:

docs: clarify tag search behavior in Jaeger UI (fixes jaegertracing/jaeger#7333)
Signed-off-by: Chethan A C <acchethan15@gmail.com>

content/docs/v1/1.71/deployment/frontend-ui.md, after:

---
title: Frontend/UI Configuration
navtitle: Frontend/UI
aliases: [../frontend-ui]
hasparent: true
weight: 7
---

## Configuration

Several aspects of the UI can be configured:

  * The Dependencies section can be enabled / configured
  * The [Monitor tab (aka: Service Performance Monitoring)](../spm/) can be enabled / configured
  * App analytics tracking can be enabled / configured (via Google Analytics or custom plugin)
  * Additional menu options can be added to the global nav
  * Search input limits can be configured

These options can be configured by a JSON configuration file. The `--query.ui-config` command line parameter of the query service must then be set to the path to the JSON file when the query service is started.

An example configuration file (see [complete schema here](https://github.com/jaegertracing/jaeger-ui/blob/main/packages/jaeger-ui/src/types/config.tsx)):

```json
{
  "dependencies": {
    "dagMaxNumServices": 200,
    "menuEnabled": true
  },
  "monitor": {
    "menuEnabled": true
  },
  "archiveEnabled": true,
  "tracking": {
    "gaID": "UA-000000-2",
    "trackErrors": true
  },
  "menu": [
    {
      "label": "About Jaeger",
      "items": [
        {
          "label": "GitHub",
          "url": "https://github.com/jaegertracing/jaeger"
        },
        {
          "label": "Docs",
          "url": "https://www.jaegertracing.io/docs/latest/"
        }
      ]
    }
  ],
  "search": {
    "maxLookback": {
      "label": "2 Days",
      "value": "2d"
    },
    "maxLimit": 1500
  },
  "linkPatterns": [{
    "type": "process",
    "key": "jaeger.version",
    "url": "https://github.com/jaegertracing/jaeger-client-java/releases/tag/#{jaeger.version}",
    "text": "Information about Jaeger release #{jaeger.version}"
  },
  {
    "type": "tags",
    "key": "uniqueId",
    "url": "https://mykibana.com/uniqueId=#{uniqueId}&traceId=#{trace.traceID}",
    "text": "Redirect to kibana to view log"
  },
  {
    "type": "traces",
    "url": "https://my-logs.server?from=#{startTime | add -60000000 | epoch_micros_to_date_iso}&to=#{endTime | add 60000000 | epoch_micros_to_date_iso}'",
    "text": "Redirect to kibana to view log with formatted dates"
  }]
}
```

### Dependencies

`dependencies.dagMaxNumServices` defines the maximum number of services allowed before the DAG dependency view is disabled. Default: `200`.

`dependencies.menuEnabled` enables (`true`) or disables (`false`) the dependencies menu button. Default: `true`.

### Monitor

`monitor.menuEnabled` enables (`true`) or disables (`false`) the Monitor menu button. Default: `false`.

### Archive Support

`archiveEnabled` enables (`true`) or disables (`false`) the archive traces button. Default: `false`. It requires a configuration of an archive storage in Query service. Archived traces are only accessible directly by ID, they are not searchable.

### App Analytics Tracking

`tracking.gaID` defines the Google Analytics tracking ID. This is required for Google Analytics tracking, and setting it to a non-`null` value enables Google Analytics tracking. Default: `null`.

`tracking.customWebAnalytics` defines a factory function for a custom tracking plugin (only when using Javascript-form of UI configuration).

`tracking.trackErrors` enables (`true`) or disables (`false`) error tracking. Errors can only be tracked if a valid analytics tracker is configured. Default: `true`.

For additional details on app analytics see the [tracking README](https://github.com/jaegertracing/jaeger-ui/blob/master/packages/jaeger-ui/src/utils/tracking/README.md) in the UI repo.

### Custom Menu Items

`menu` allows additional links to be added to the global nav. The additional links are right-aligned.

In the sample JSON config above, the configured menu will have a dropdown labeled "About Jaeger" with sub-options for "GitHub" and "Docs". The format for a link in the top right menu is as follows:

```json
{
  "label": "Some text here",
  "url": "https://example.com"
}
```

Links can either be members of the `menu` Array, directly, or they can be grouped into a dropdown menu option. The format for a group of links is:

```json
{
  "label": "Dropdown button",
  "items": [ ]
}
```

The `items` Array should contain one or more link configurations.

### Search Input Limit

The `search.maxLimit` configures the maximum results that the input let you search.

The `search.maxLookback` configures the maximum time before the present users can query for traces. The options in the Lookback dropdown greater than this value will not be shown.

Field | Description
------|------------
label | The text displayed in the search form dropdown
value | The value submitted in the search query if the label is selected

### Link Patterns

The `linkPatterns` node can be used to create links from fields displayed in the Jaeger UI.

Field | Description
------|------------
type  | The metadata section in which your link will be added: process, tags, logs, traces
key   | The name of tag/process/log attribute which value will be displayed as a link, this field is not necessary for type `traces`.
url   | The URL where the link should point to, it can be an external site or relative path in Jaeger UI
text  | The text displayed in the tooltip for the link

Both `url` and `text` can be defined as templates (i.e. using `#{field-name}`) where Jaeger UI will dynamically substitute values based on tags/logs/traces data.

For traces, the supported template fields are: `duration`, `endTime`, `startTime`, `traceName` and `traceID`.

Further, the trace template fields are available for substitution in process/logs/tags type when the trace template fields are prefixed with `trace.`. For example: `trace.traceID`, `trace.startTime`.

#### Formatting

In addition to interpolating fields into links, formatting functions can be used. The syntax is `#{field | function}` (eg `#{endTime | epoch_micros_to_date_iso}'`). Formatting functions can be chained together (eg `#{startTime | add 60000000 | epoch_micros_to_date_iso}`).

The available formatting functions and a description of their behavior are:

##### `epoch_micros_to_date_iso`

Format a date in microseconds since epoch to an ISO date time.

Example:
`#{endTime | epoch_micros_to_date_iso}`

##### `pad_start`

Pad the start of a string with a given character until the resulting string reaches the given length. Behavior is implemented by and thus matches javascript's [String.padStart](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String/padStart)

Arguments:

- `targetLength` (integer) - Desired length of the string after padding
- `padCharacter` (string) - String to pad the start of the input string with

Example: `#{traceID | pad_start 32 0}`

##### `add`

Add a value to another number. Can be positive or negative.

Arguments:

- `offset` (integer) - Value to add to the input number

Example: `#{startTime | add 1000000}`

## Tag Search Behavior

Jaeger UI indexes and allows searching for tags/attributes only if their values are strings. If a tag is set as an array (e.g., `["value"]`), it will not be searchable in the UI. This is important for users who want to search for specific tags, such as request IDs, in the Jaeger UI.

When instrumenting your application, ensure that important tags (such as request IDs) are set as string values, not arrays. For example, when using OpenTelemetry SDKs, avoid configurations that result in array values for tags you wish to search. This behavior is discussed in [issue #7333](https://github.com/jaegertracing/jaeger/issues/7333).

## Embedded Mode

Starting with version 1.9, Jaeger UI provides an "embedded" layout mode which is intended to support integrating Jaeger UI into other applications. Currently (as of `v0`), the approach taken is to remove various UI elements from the page to make the UI better suited for space-constrained layouts.

The embedded mode is induced and configured via URL query parameters.

To enter embedded mode, the `uiEmbed=v0` query parameter and value must be added to the URL. For example, the following URL will show the trace with ID `abc123` in embedded mode:

```
http://localhost:16686/trace/abc123?uiEmbed=v0
```

`uiEmbed=v0` is required.

Further, for each supported page a button {{< rawhtml >}}<img src="/img/frontend-ui/embed-open-icon.png" style="width: 20px; height:20px;display:inline;" alt="Embed open window">{{< /rawhtml >}} is added that will open the non-embedded page in a new tab.

The following pages support embedded mode:

* Search Page
* Trace Page

### Search Page

To integrate the Search Trace Page to our application we have to indicate to the Jaeger UI that we want to use the embed mode with `uiEmbed=v0`.

For example:

```
http://localhost:16686/search?
    service=my-service&
    start=1543917759557000&
    end=1543921359557000&
    limit=20&
    lookback=1h&
    maxDuration&
    minDuration&
    uiEmbed=v0
```

[![Embed Search Traces](/img/frontend-ui/embed-search-traces.png)](/img/frontend-ui/embed-search-traces.png)

#### Configuration options

The following query parameter can be used to configure the layout of the search page :

* `uiSearchHideGraph=1` - disables the display of the scatter plot above the search results

```
http://localhost:16686/search?
    service=my-service&
    start=1543917759557000&
    end=1543921359557000&
    limit=20&
    lookback=1h&
    maxDuration&
    minDuration&
    uiEmbed=v0&
    uiSearchHideGraph=1
```

[![Embed Search Traces without Graph](/img/frontend-ui/embed-search-traces-hide-graph.png)](/img/frontend-ui/embed-search-traces-hide-graph.png)

### Trace Page


To integrate the Trace Page to our application we have to indicate to the Jaeger UI that we want to use the embed mode with `uiEmbed=v0`.

For example:

```sh
http://localhost:16686/trace/{trace-id}?uiEmbed=v0
```
[![Embed Trace view](/img/frontend-ui/embed-trace-view.png)](/img/frontend-ui/embed-trace-view.png)

If we have navigated to this view from the search traces page we'll have a button to go back to the results page.

[![Embed Trace view](/img/frontend-ui/embed-trace-view-with-back-button.png)](/img/frontend-ui/embed-trace-view-with-back-button.png)

#### Configuration options

The following query parameters can be used to configure the layout of the trace page :

* `uiTimelineCollapseTitle=1` causes the trace header to start out collapsed, which hides the summary and the minimap.

```
http://localhost:16686/trace/{trace-id}?
    uiEmbed=v0&
    uiTimelineCollapseTitle=1
```
[![Embed Trace view](/img/frontend-ui/embed-trace-view-with-collapse.png)](/img/frontend-ui/embed-trace-view-with-collapse.png)

* `uiTimelineHideMinimap=1` removes the minimap, entirely, regardless of whether the trace header is expanded or not.

```
http://localhost:16686/trace/{trace-id}?
    uiEmbed=v0&
    uiTimelineHideMinimap=1
```
[![Embed Trace view](/img/frontend-ui/embed-trace-view-with-hide-minimap.png)](/img/frontend-ui/embed-trace-view-with-hide-minimap.png)

* `uiTimelineHideSummary=1` - removes the trace summary information (number of services, etc.) entirely, regardless of whether the trace header is expanded or not.

```
http://localhost:16686/trace/{trace-id}?
    uiEmbed=v0&
    uiTimelineHideSummary=1
```
[![Embed Trace view](/img/frontend-ui/embed-trace-view-with-hide-summary.png)](/img/frontend-ui/embed-trace-view-with-hide-summary.png)

We can also combine the options:
```
http://localhost:16686/trace/{trace-id}?
    uiEmbed=v0&
    uiTimelineHideMinimap=1&
    uiTimelineHideSummary=1
```
[![Embed Trace view](/img/frontend-ui/embed-trace-view-with-hide-details-and-hide-minimap.png)](/img/frontend-ui/embed-trace-view-with-hide-details-and-hide-minimap.png)
