content/docs/2.6/apis.md, before:

---
title: APIs
hasparent: true
---

Jaeger supports various APIs for saving or retrieving trace data.

The following labels are used to describe API compatibility guarantees.

* **stable** - the API guarantees backwards compatibility. If breaking changes are going to be made in the future, they will result in a new API version, e.g. `/api/v2` URL prefix or a different namespace in the IDL.
* **internal** - the APIs are intended for internal communications between Jaeger components and are not recommended for use by external components.
* **deprecated** - the APIs that are only maintained for legacy reasons and will be phased out in the future.

## Default Ports

The following tables list the default ports used by Jaeger components. They can be overwritten by user via configuration.

### Write APIs

| Port  | Protocol | Endpoint        | Format
| ----- | -------  | --------------- | ----
| 4317  | gRPC     | `ExportTraceServiceRequest` | [OTLP Protobuf](#opentelemetry-protocol)
| 4318  | HTTP     | `/v1/traces`    | [OTLP Protobuf or OTLP JSON](#opentelemetry-protocol)
| 6831  | UDP      | raw port        | [Legacy Thrift in `compact` Thrift protocol](#legacy-thrift-over-udp)
| 6832  | UDP      | raw port        | [Legacy Thrift in `binary` Thrift protocol](#legacy-thrift-over-udp)
| 9411  | HTTP     | `/api/v1/spans` | [Zipkin v1 JSON or Thrift](#zipkin-formats)
|       | HTTP     | `/api/v2/spans` | [Zipkin v2 JSON or Protobuf](#zipkin-formats)
| 14250 | gRPC     | `jaeger.api_v2.CollectorService` | [Legacy Protobuf](#legacy-protobuf-via-grpc)
| 14268 | HTTP     | `/api/traces`   | [Legacy Thrift](#legacy-thrift-over-http)

### Read APIs

| Port  | Protocol | Endpoint        | Format
| ----- | -------  | --------------- | ----
| 16685 | gRPC     | `jaeger.api_v3.QueryService` | [OTLP-based Protobuf](#query-protobuf-via-grpc)
|       | gRPC     | `jaeger.api_v2.QueryService` | [Legacy Protobuf](#query-protobuf-via-grpc)
| 16686 | HTTP     | `/api/v3/*`     | [OTLP-based JSON over HTTP](#query-json-over-http)
|       | HTTP     | `/api/*`        | [Internal (unofficial) JSON API](#internal-http-json)

### Remote Sampling APIs

| Port  | Protocol | Endpoint        | Format
| ----- | -------  | --------------- | ----
| 5778  | HTTP     | `/sampling`     | [sampling.proto] via [Protobuf-to-JSON mapping](https://developers.google.com/protocol-buffers/docs/proto3#json)
| 5779  | gRPC     | `jaeger.api_v2.SamplingManager` | Protobuf

## Trace receiving APIs

Jaeger can receive trace data in multiple formats on different ports.

### OpenTelemetry Protocol

**Status**: Stable

Jaeger can receive trace data from the OpenTelemetry SDKs in their native [OpenTelemetry Protocol (OTLP)][otlp]. The OTLP data is accepted in these formats: 
  * [Protobuf via gRPC][otlp.grpc]
  * [Protobuf over HTTP][otlp.http]
  * [JSON over HTTP][otlp.http]
  
Only tracing data is accepted, since Jaeger does not store other telemetry types. For more details on the OTLP receiver see the [official documentation][otlp-rcvr].

[otlp-rcvr]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/receiver/otlpreceiver/README.md
[otlp]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-proto/blob/main/docs/specification.md

### Legacy Protobuf via gRPC

**Status**: Stable, Deprecated

Jaeger's legacy Protobuf format is defined in [collector.proto] IDL file. Support for this format has been removed from OpenTelemetry SDKs, it's only maintained for backwards compatibility.

### Legacy Thrift over HTTP

**Status**: Stable, Deprecated

Jaeger's legacy Thrift format is defined in [jaeger.thrift] IDL file, and is only maintained for backwards compatibility. The Thrift payload can be submitted in an HTTP POST request to the  `/api/traces` endpoint, for example, `https://jaeger-collector:14268/api/traces`. The `Batch` struct needs to be encoded using Thrift's `binary` encoding, and the HTTP request should specify the content type header:

```
Content-Type: application/vnd.apache.thrift.binary
```

### Legacy Thrift over UDP

**Status**: Stable, Deprecated

This API is kept for backwards compatibility with legacy Jaeger clients.

The primary API is a UDP packet that contains a Thrift-encoded `Batch` struct defined in the [jaeger.thrift] IDL file, located in the [jaeger-idl] repository. Most Jaeger Clients use Thrift's `compact` encoding, however some client libraries do not support it (notably, Node.js) and use Thrift's `binary` encoding (sent to  a different UDP port).

### Zipkin Formats

**Status**: Stable

Jaeger can accept spans in several Zipkin data formats, namely JSON v1/v2 and Thrift. **jaeger-collector** needs to be configured to enable Zipkin HTTP server, e.g. on port 9411 used by Zipkin collectors. The server enables two endpoints that expect POST requests:

* `/api/v1/spans` for submitting spans in Zipkin v1 JSON or Thrift formats.
* `/api/v2/spans` for submitting spans in Zipkin v2 JSON or Protobuf formats.

## Trace retrieval APIs

Traces saved in the storage can be retrieved by calling **jaeger-query** Service.

### Query Protobuf via gRPC

**Status**: Stable

The recommended way for programmatically retrieving traces and other data is via the `jaeger.api_v3.QueryService` gRPC endpoint defined in [api_v3/query_service.proto][query.proto] IDL file. In the default configuration this endpoint is accessible on port `:16685`. The legacy [api_v2](https://github.com/jaegertracing/jaeger-idl/tree/main/proto/api_v2) is also supported.

### Query JSON over HTTP

**Status**: Stable

This is a JSON/HTTP version (see [Swagger][query.swagger] file) of [api_v3/query_service.proto][query.proto] above.

### Internal HTTP JSON

**Status**: Internal

Jaeger UI communicates with **jaeger-query** Service via JSON API. For example, a trace can be retrieved via a GET request to `https://jaeger-query:16686/api/traces/{trace-id-hex-string}`. This JSON API is intentionally undocumented and subject to change.

## Remote Storage API

**Status**: Stable

When using the `grpc` storage type (a.k.a. [remote storage](../storage/#remote-storage)), Jaeger components can use custom storage backends as long as those backends implement the gRPC [Remote Storage API][storage.proto].

## Remote Sampling Configuration

**Status**: Stable

This API supports Jaeger's [Remote Sampling](../sampling/#remote-sampling) protocol, defined in the [sampling.proto] IDL file. See [Remote Sampling](../sampling/#remote-sampling) for details on how to configure Jaeger  with sampling strategies.

## Service dependencies graph

**Status**: Internal

Can be retrieved from `/api/dependencies` endpoint. The GET request expects two parameters:

* `endTs` (number of milliseconds since epoch) - the end of the time interval
* `lookback` (in milliseconds) - the length the time interval (i.e. start-time + lookback = end-time).

The returned JSON is a list of edges represented as tuples `(caller, callee, count)`.

For programmatic access to the service graph, the recommended API is gRPC/Protobuf described above.

## Service Performance Monitoring

**Status**: Internal

Please refer to the [SPM Documentation](../spm/#api)

## gRPC Server Introspection

Service ports that serve gRPC endpoints enable [gRPC reflection][grpc-reflection]. Unfortunately, the internally used `gogo/protobuf` has a [compatibility issue][gogo-reflection] with the official `golang/protobuf`, and as a result only the `list` reflection command is currently working properly, for example:

```shell
grpc_cli ls localhost:16685
  grpc.health.v1.Health
  grpc.reflection.v1.ServerReflection
  grpc.reflection.v1alpha.ServerReflection
  jaeger.api_v2.QueryService
  jaeger.api_v2.metrics.MetricsQueryService
  jaeger.api_v3.QueryService
```

[otlp.grpc]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-proto/blob/main/docs/specification.md#otlpgrpc
[otlp.http]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-proto/blob/main/docs/specification.md#otlphttp
[jaeger.thrift]: https://github.com/jaegertracing/jaeger-idl/blob/main/thrift/jaeger.thrift
[query.proto]: https://github.com/jaegertracing/jaeger-idl/blob/main/proto/api_v3/query_service.proto
[query.swagger]: https://github.com/jaegertracing/jaeger-idl/blob/main/swagger/api_v3/query_service.swagger.json
[collector.proto]: https://github.com/jaegertracing/jaeger-idl/blob/main/proto/api_v2/collector.proto
[sampling.proto]: https://github.com/jaegertracing/jaeger-idl/blob/main/proto/api_v2/sampling.proto
[grpc-reflection]: https://github.com/grpc/grpc-go/blob/master/Documentation/server-reflection-tutorial.md#enable-server-reflection
[gogo-reflection]: https://jbrandhorst.com/post/gogoproto/#reflection
[storage.proto]: https://github.com/jaegertracing/jaeger/blob/v2.6.0/internal/storage/v1/grpc/proto/storage.proto

Commit message:

Backport gRPC documentation to v2.6 (#880)
## Description of the changes
- Backports the new gRPC documentation to v2.6.0 since most of the
changes were in that release

Signed-off-by: Mahad Zaryab <mahadzaryab1@gmail.com>

content/docs/2.6/apis.md, after:

---
title: APIs
hasparent: true
---

Jaeger supports various APIs for saving or retrieving trace data.

The following labels are used to describe API compatibility guarantees.

* **stable** - the API guarantees backwards compatibility. If breaking changes are going to be made in the future, they will result in a new API version, e.g. `/api/v2` URL prefix or a different namespace in the IDL.
* **internal** - the APIs are intended for internal communications between Jaeger components and are not recommended for use by external components.
* **deprecated** - the APIs that are only maintained for legacy reasons and will be phased out in the future.

## Default Ports

The following tables list the default ports used by Jaeger components. They can be overwritten by user via configuration.

### Write APIs

| Port  | Protocol | Endpoint        | Format
| ----- | -------  | --------------- | ----
| 4317  | gRPC     | `ExportTraceServiceRequest` | [OTLP Protobuf](#opentelemetry-protocol)
| 4318  | HTTP     | `/v1/traces`    | [OTLP Protobuf or OTLP JSON](#opentelemetry-protocol)
| 6831  | UDP      | raw port        | [Legacy Thrift in `compact` Thrift protocol](#legacy-thrift-over-udp)
| 6832  | UDP      | raw port        | [Legacy Thrift in `binary` Thrift protocol](#legacy-thrift-over-udp)
| 9411  | HTTP     | `/api/v1/spans` | [Zipkin v1 JSON or Thrift](#zipkin-formats)
|       | HTTP     | `/api/v2/spans` | [Zipkin v2 JSON or Protobuf](#zipkin-formats)
| 14250 | gRPC     | `jaeger.api_v2.CollectorService` | [Legacy Protobuf](#legacy-protobuf-via-grpc)
| 14268 | HTTP     | `/api/traces`   | [Legacy Thrift](#legacy-thrift-over-http)

### Read APIs

| Port  | Protocol | Endpoint        | Format
| ----- | -------  | --------------- | ----
| 16685 | gRPC     | `jaeger.api_v3.QueryService` | [OTLP-based Protobuf](#query-protobuf-via-grpc)
|       | gRPC     | `jaeger.api_v2.QueryService` | [Legacy Protobuf](#query-protobuf-via-grpc)
| 16686 | HTTP     | `/api/v3/*`     | [OTLP-based JSON over HTTP](#query-json-over-http)
|       | HTTP     | `/api/*`        | [Internal (unofficial) JSON API](#internal-http-json)

### Remote Sampling APIs

| Port  | Protocol | Endpoint        | Format
| ----- | -------  | --------------- | ----
| 5778  | HTTP     | `/sampling`     | [sampling.proto] via [Protobuf-to-JSON mapping](https://developers.google.com/protocol-buffers/docs/proto3#json)
| 5779  | gRPC     | `jaeger.api_v2.SamplingManager` | Protobuf

## Trace receiving APIs

Jaeger can receive trace data in multiple formats on different ports.

### OpenTelemetry Protocol

**Status**: Stable

Jaeger can receive trace data from the OpenTelemetry SDKs in their native [OpenTelemetry Protocol (OTLP)][otlp]. The OTLP data is accepted in these formats: 
  * [Protobuf via gRPC][otlp.grpc]
  * [Protobuf over HTTP][otlp.http]
  * [JSON over HTTP][otlp.http]
  
Only tracing data is accepted, since Jaeger does not store other telemetry types. For more details on the OTLP receiver see the [official documentation][otlp-rcvr].

[otlp-rcvr]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/receiver/otlpreceiver/README.md
[otlp]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-proto/blob/main/docs/specification.md

### Legacy Protobuf via gRPC

**Status**: Stable, Deprecated

Jaeger's legacy Protobuf format is defined in [collector.proto] IDL file. Support for this format has been removed from OpenTelemetry SDKs, it's only maintained for backwards compatibility.

### Legacy Thrift over HTTP

**Status**: Stable, Deprecated

Jaeger's legacy Thrift format is defined in [jaeger.thrift] IDL file, and is only maintained for backwards compatibility. The Thrift payload can be submitted in an HTTP POST request to the  `/api/traces` endpoint, for example, `https://jaeger-collector:14268/api/traces`. The `Batch` struct needs to be encoded using Thrift's `binary` encoding, and the HTTP request should specify the content type header:

```
Content-Type: application/vnd.apache.thrift.binary
```

### Legacy Thrift over UDP

**Status**: Stable, Deprecated

This API is kept for backwards compatibility with legacy Jaeger clients.

The primary API is a UDP packet that contains a Thrift-encoded `Batch` struct defined in the [jaeger.thrift] IDL file, located in the [jaeger-idl] repository. Most Jaeger Clients use Thrift's `compact` encoding, however some client libraries do not support it (notably, Node.js) and use Thrift's `binary` encoding (sent to  a different UDP port).

### Zipkin Formats

**Status**: Stable

Jaeger can accept spans in several Zipkin data formats, namely JSON v1/v2 and Thrift. **jaeger-collector** needs to be configured to enable Zipkin HTTP server, e.g. on port 9411 used by Zipkin collectors. The server enables two endpoints that expect POST requests:

* `/api/v1/spans` for submitting spans in Zipkin v1 JSON or Thrift formats.
* `/api/v2/spans` for submitting spans in Zipkin v2 JSON or Protobuf formats.

## Trace retrieval APIs

Traces saved in the storage can be retrieved by calling **jaeger-query** Service.

### Query Protobuf via gRPC

**Status**: Stable

The recommended way for programmatically retrieving traces and other data is via the `jaeger.api_v3.QueryService` gRPC endpoint defined in [api_v3/query_service.proto][query.proto] IDL file. In the default configuration this endpoint is accessible on port `:16685`. The legacy [api_v2](https://github.com/jaegertracing/jaeger-idl/tree/main/proto/api_v2) is also supported.

### Query JSON over HTTP

**Status**: Stable

This is a JSON/HTTP version (see [Swagger][query.swagger] file) of [api_v3/query_service.proto][query.proto] above.

### Internal HTTP JSON

**Status**: Internal

Jaeger UI communicates with **jaeger-query** Service via JSON API. For example, a trace can be retrieved via a GET request to `https://jaeger-query:16686/api/traces/{trace-id-hex-string}`. This JSON API is intentionally undocumented and subject to change.

## Remote Storage API

**Status**: Stable

When using the `grpc` storage type (a.k.a. [remote storage](../storage/#remote-storage)),
Jaeger can use custom storage backends as long as those backends implement
the gRPC Remote Storage API.

To use a remote storage backend, you must deploy a gRPC server that implements
the following services:

* **[TraceReader](https://github.com/jaegertracing/jaeger-idl/tree/main/proto/storage/v2/trace_storage.proto)**  
  Enables Jaeger to read traces from the storage backend.
* **[DependencyReader](https://github.com/jaegertracing/jaeger-idl/tree/main/proto/storage/v2/dependency_storage.proto)**  
  Used to load service dependency graphs from storage.
* **[TraceService](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-proto/blob/main/opentelemetry/proto/collector/trace/v1/trace_service.proto)**  
  Allows trace data to be pushed to the storage. This service can run on a separate port if needed.

For more information, please refer to
[jaeger/internal/storage/v2/grpc](https://github.com/jaegertracing/jaeger/tree/main/internal/storage/v2/grpc).

## Remote Sampling Configuration

**Status**: Stable

This API supports Jaeger's [Remote Sampling](../sampling/#remote-sampling) protocol, defined in the [sampling.proto] IDL file. See [Remote Sampling](../sampling/#remote-sampling) for details on how to configure Jaeger  with sampling strategies.

## Service dependencies graph

**Status**: Internal

Can be retrieved from `/api/dependencies` endpoint. The GET request expects two parameters:

* `endTs` (number of milliseconds since epoch) - the end of the time interval
* `lookback` (in milliseconds) - the length the time interval (i.e. start-time + lookback = end-time).

The returned JSON is a list of edges represented as tuples `(caller, callee, count)`.

For programmatic access to the service graph, the recommended API is gRPC/Protobuf described above.

## Service Performance Monitoring

**Status**: Internal

Please refer to the [SPM Documentation](../spm/#api)

## gRPC Server Introspection

Service ports that serve gRPC endpoints enable [gRPC reflection][grpc-reflection]. Unfortunately, the internally used `gogo/protobuf` has a [compatibility issue][gogo-reflection] with the official `golang/protobuf`, and as a result only the `list` reflection command is currently working properly, for example:

```shell
grpc_cli ls localhost:16685
  grpc.health.v1.Health
  grpc.reflection.v1.ServerReflection
  grpc.reflection.v1alpha.ServerReflection
  jaeger.api_v2.QueryService
  jaeger.api_v2.metrics.MetricsQueryService
  jaeger.api_v3.QueryService
```

[otlp.grpc]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-proto/blob/main/docs/specification.md#otlpgrpc
[otlp.http]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-proto/blob/main/docs/specification.md#otlphttp
[jaeger.thrift]: https://github.com/jaegertracing/jaeger-idl/blob/main/thrift/jaeger.thrift
[query.proto]: https://github.com/jaegertracing/jaeger-idl/blob/main/proto/api_v3/query_service.proto
[query.swagger]: https://github.com/jaegertracing/jaeger-idl/blob/main/swagger/api_v3/query_service.swagger.json
[collector.proto]: https://github.com/jaegertracing/jaeger-idl/blob/main/proto/api_v2/collector.proto
[sampling.proto]: https://github.com/jaegertracing/jaeger-idl/blob/main/proto/api_v2/sampling.proto
[grpc-reflection]: https://github.com/grpc/grpc-go/blob/master/Documentation/server-reflection-tutorial.md#enable-server-reflection
[gogo-reflection]: https://jbrandhorst.com/post/gogoproto/#reflection
