content/docs/client-libraries.md, before:

---
title: Client libraries
rank: 4
---

{{< featuresTable >}}

{{< clientsTable >}}

## Introduction

All Jaeger client libraries support the [OpenTracing standard](http://opentracing.io). The following resources provide more information about instrumenting your application with the OpenTracing APIs:

* [OpenTracing tutorials](https://github.com/yurishkuro/opentracing-tutorial) for Java, Go, Python, and Node.js
* A deep dive blog post [Tracing HTTP request latency in Go][http-latency-medium]
* The official OpenTracing documentation and other materials at [opentracing.io](http://opentracing.io)
* The `opentracing-contrib` [org on GitHub](https://github.com/opentracing-contrib) contains many repositories with off-the-shelf instrumentation for many popular frameworks, including JAXRS & Dropwizard (Java), Flask & Django (Python), Go std library, etc.

The rest of this page contains information about configuring and instantiating a Jaeger tracer in an application that is already instrumented with OpenTracing API.

## Terminology

We use the term *client library*, *instrumentation library*, and *tracer* interchangeably in this document.

## Official libraries

| Language | Library                                                      |
| ---------|--------------------------------------------------------------|
| go       | [jaeger-client-go](https://github.com/uber/jaeger-client-go)        |
| java     | [jaeger-client-java](https://github.com/uber/jaeger-client-java)    |
| node     | [jaeger-client-node](https://github.com/uber/jaeger-client-node)    |
| python   | [jaeger-client-python](https://github.com/uber/jaeger-client-python)|
| C++      | [cpp-client](https://github.com/jaegertracing/cpp-client)           |

Libraries in other languages are currently under development, please see [issue #366](https://github.com/jaegertracing/jaeger/issues/366).

## Initializing Jaeger Tracer

The initialization syntax is slightly different in each languages, please refer to the README's in the respective repositories.
The general pattern is to not create the Tracer explicitly, but use a Configuration class to do that.  Configuration allows
simpler parameterization of the Tracer, such as changing the default sampler or the location of Jaeger agent.

## Tracer Internals

### Sampling

See [here](../sampling#client-sampling-configuration).

### Reporters

Jaeger tracers use **reporters** to process finished spans. Typically Jaeger libraries ship with the following reporters:

* **NullReporter** does nothing with the span. It can be useful in unit tests.
* **LoggingReporter** simply logs the fact that a span was finished, usually by printing the trace and span ID and the operation name.
* **CompositeReporter** takes a list of other reporters and invokes them one by one.
* **RemoteReporter** (default) buffers a certain number of finished spans in memory and uses a **sender** to submit a batch of spans out of process to Jaeger backend. The sender is responsible for serializing the span to the wire format (e.g. Thrift or JSON) and communicating with the backend components (e.g. over UDP or HTTP).

#### EMSGSIZE and UDP buffer limits

By default Jaeger libraries use a UDP sender to report finished spans to `jaeger-agent` daemon.
The default max packet size is 65,000 bytes, which can be transmitted without segmentation when
connecting to the agent via loopback interface. However, some OSs (in particular, MacOS), limit
the max buffer size for UDP packets, as raised in [this GitHub issue](https://github.com/uber/jaeger-client-node/issues/124).
If you run into issue with `EMSGSIZE` errors, consider raising the limits in your kernel (see the issue for examples).
You can also configure the client libraries to use a smaller max packet size, but that may cause
issues if you have large spans, e.g. if you log big chunks of data. Spans that exceed max packet size
are dropped by the clients (with metrics emitted to indicate that). Another alternative is
to use non-UDP transports, such as [HttpSender in Java][HttpSender] (not currently available for all languages).

### Metrics

Jaeger tracers emit various metrics about how many spans or traces they have started and finished, how many of them were sampled or not sampled, if there were any errors in decoding trace context from inbound requests or reporting spans to the backend.

TODO standardize and describe the metric names and labels (issues [#572](https://github.com/jaegertracing/jaeger/issues/572), [#611](https://github.com/jaegertracing/jaeger/issues/611)).

## Propagation Format

When `SpanContext` is encoded on the wire as part of the request to another service, Jaeger client libraries default to the encoding specified below. In the future Jaeger will support the upcoming [W3C Trace-Context specification](https://github.com/w3c/distributed-tracing).

### Trace/Span Identity

#### Key

`uber-trace-id`

* Case-insensitive in HTTP
* Lower-case in protocols that preserve header case

#### Value

`{trace-id}:{span-id}:{parent-span-id}:{flags}`

* `{trace-id}`
    * 64-bit or 128-bit random number in base16 format
    * Can be variable length, shorter values are 0-padded on the left
    * Clients in some languages support 128-bit, migration pending
    * Value of 0 is invalid
* `{span-id}`
    * 64-bit random number in base16 format
* `{parent-span-id}`
    * 64-bit value in base16 format representing parent span id
    * Deprecated, most Jaeger clients ignore on the receiving side, but still include it on the sending side
    * 0 value is valid and means “root span” (when not ignored)
* `{flags}`
    * One byte bitmap, as two hex digits
    * Bit 1 (right-most, least significant) is “sampled” flag
        * 1 means the trace is sampled and all downstream services are advised to respect that
        * 0 means the trace is not sampled and all downstream services are advised to respect that
            * We’re considering a new feature that allows downstream services to upsample if they find their tracing level is too low
    * Bit 2 is “debug” flag
        * Debug flag implies sampled flag
        * Instructs the backend to try really hard not to drop this trace
    * Other bits are unused

### Baggage

* Key: `uberctx-{baggage-key}`
* Value: url-encoded string
* Limitation: since HTTP headers don’t preserve the case, Jaeger recommends baggage keys to be lowercase-snake-case,
e.g. `my-baggage-key-1`.



[HttpSender]: https://github.com/uber/jaeger-client-java/blob/master/jaeger-core/src/main/java/com/uber/jaeger/senders/HttpSender.java
[http-latency-medium]: https://medium.com/@YuriShkuro/tracing-http-request-latency-in-go-with-opentracing-7cc1282a100a

Commit message:

Add table shortcodes to client libraries doc
Signed-off-by: Luc Perkins <lucperkins@gmail.com>

content/docs/client-libraries.md, after:

---
title: Client libraries
rank: 4
---

All Jaeger client libraries support the [OpenTracing standard](http://opentracing.io). The following resources provide more information about instrumenting your application with the OpenTracing APIs:

* [OpenTracing tutorials](https://github.com/yurishkuro/opentracing-tutorial) for Java, Go, Python, and Node.js
* A deep dive blog post [Tracing HTTP request latency in Go][http-latency-medium]
* The official OpenTracing documentation and other materials at [opentracing.io](http://opentracing.io)
* The `opentracing-contrib` [org on GitHub](https://github.com/opentracing-contrib) contains many repositories with off-the-shelf instrumentation for many popular frameworks, including JAXRS & Dropwizard (Java), Flask & Django (Python), Go std library, etc.

The rest of this page contains information about configuring and instantiating a Jaeger tracer in an application that is already instrumented with OpenTracing API.

## Terminology

We use the term *client library*, *instrumentation library*, and *tracer* interchangeably in this document.

## Client library features

The table below lists possible features supported by client libraries:

{{< featuresTable >}}

## Official libraries

{{< clientsTable >}}

Libraries in other languages are currently under development, please see [issue #366](https://github.com/jaegertracing/jaeger/issues/366).

## Initializing Jaeger Tracer

The initialization syntax is slightly different in each languages, please refer to the README's in the respective repositories.
The general pattern is to not create the Tracer explicitly, but use a Configuration class to do that.  Configuration allows
simpler parameterization of the Tracer, such as changing the default sampler or the location of Jaeger agent.

## Tracer Internals

### Sampling

See [here](../sampling#client-sampling-configuration).

### Reporters

Jaeger tracers use **reporters** to process finished spans. Typically Jaeger libraries ship with the following reporters:

* **NullReporter** does nothing with the span. It can be useful in unit tests.
* **LoggingReporter** simply logs the fact that a span was finished, usually by printing the trace and span ID and the operation name.
* **CompositeReporter** takes a list of other reporters and invokes them one by one.
* **RemoteReporter** (default) buffers a certain number of finished spans in memory and uses a **sender** to submit a batch of spans out of process to Jaeger backend. The sender is responsible for serializing the span to the wire format (e.g. Thrift or JSON) and communicating with the backend components (e.g. over UDP or HTTP).

#### EMSGSIZE and UDP buffer limits

By default Jaeger libraries use a UDP sender to report finished spans to `jaeger-agent` daemon.
The default max packet size is 65,000 bytes, which can be transmitted without segmentation when
connecting to the agent via loopback interface. However, some OSs (in particular, MacOS), limit
the max buffer size for UDP packets, as raised in [this GitHub issue](https://github.com/uber/jaeger-client-node/issues/124).
If you run into issue with `EMSGSIZE` errors, consider raising the limits in your kernel (see the issue for examples).
You can also configure the client libraries to use a smaller max packet size, but that may cause
issues if you have large spans, e.g. if you log big chunks of data. Spans that exceed max packet size
are dropped by the clients (with metrics emitted to indicate that). Another alternative is
to use non-UDP transports, such as [HttpSender in Java][HttpSender] (not currently available for all languages).

### Metrics

Jaeger tracers emit various metrics about how many spans or traces they have started and finished, how many of them were sampled or not sampled, if there were any errors in decoding trace context from inbound requests or reporting spans to the backend.

TODO standardize and describe the metric names and labels (issues [#572](https://github.com/jaegertracing/jaeger/issues/572), [#611](https://github.com/jaegertracing/jaeger/issues/611)).

## Propagation Format

When `SpanContext` is encoded on the wire as part of the request to another service, Jaeger client libraries default to the encoding specified below. In the future Jaeger will support the upcoming [W3C Trace-Context specification](https://github.com/w3c/distributed-tracing).

### Trace/Span Identity

#### Key

`uber-trace-id`

* Case-insensitive in HTTP
* Lower-case in protocols that preserve header case

#### Value

`{trace-id}:{span-id}:{parent-span-id}:{flags}`

* `{trace-id}`
    * 64-bit or 128-bit random number in base16 format
    * Can be variable length, shorter values are 0-padded on the left
    * Clients in some languages support 128-bit, migration pending
    * Value of 0 is invalid
* `{span-id}`
    * 64-bit random number in base16 format
* `{parent-span-id}`
    * 64-bit value in base16 format representing parent span id
    * Deprecated, most Jaeger clients ignore on the receiving side, but still include it on the sending side
    * 0 value is valid and means “root span” (when not ignored)
* `{flags}`
    * One byte bitmap, as two hex digits
    * Bit 1 (right-most, least significant) is “sampled” flag
        * 1 means the trace is sampled and all downstream services are advised to respect that
        * 0 means the trace is not sampled and all downstream services are advised to respect that
            * We’re considering a new feature that allows downstream services to upsample if they find their tracing level is too low
    * Bit 2 is “debug” flag
        * Debug flag implies sampled flag
        * Instructs the backend to try really hard not to drop this trace
    * Other bits are unused

### Baggage

* Key: `uberctx-{baggage-key}`
* Value: url-encoded string
* Limitation: since HTTP headers don’t preserve the case, Jaeger recommends baggage keys to be lowercase-snake-case,
e.g. `my-baggage-key-1`.



[HttpSender]: https://github.com/uber/jaeger-client-java/blob/master/jaeger-core/src/main/java/com/uber/jaeger/senders/HttpSender.java
[http-latency-medium]: https://medium.com/@YuriShkuro/tracing-http-request-latency-in-go-with-opentracing-7cc1282a100a
