content/docs/1.7/deployment.md, before:

---
title: Deployment
weight: 7
---

The main Jaeger backend components are released as Docker images on Docker Hub:

Component             | Repository
--------------------- | ---
**jaeger-agent**      | [hub.docker.com/r/jaegertracing/jaeger-agent/](https://hub.docker.com/r/jaegertracing/jaeger-agent/)
**jaeger-collector**  | [hub.docker.com/r/jaegertracing/jaeger-collector/](https://hub.docker.com/r/jaegertracing/jaeger-collector/)
**jaeger-query**      | [hub.docker.com/r/jaegertracing/jaeger-query/](https://hub.docker.com/r/jaegertracing/jaeger-query/)

There are orchestration templates for running Jaeger with:

  * Kubernetes: [github.com/jaegertracing/jaeger-kubernetes](https://github.com/jaegertracing/jaeger-kubernetes),
  * OpenShift: [github.com/jaegertracing/jaeger-openshift](https://github.com/jaegertracing/jaeger-openshift).

## Configuration Options

Jaeger binaries can be configured in a number of ways (in the order of decreasing priority):

  * command line arguments,
  * environment variables,
  * configuration files in JSON, TOML, YAML, HCL, or Java properties formats.

To see the complete list of options, run the binary with `help` command. Options that are specific to a certain storage backend are only listed if the storage type is selected. For example, to see all available options in the Collector with Cassandra storage:

```
$ docker run --rm \
    -e SPAN_STORAGE_TYPE=cassandra \
    jaegertracing/jaeger-collector:{{< currentVersion >}} \
    help
```

In order to provide configuration parameters via environment variables, find the respective command line option and convert its name to UPPER_SNAKE_CASE, for example:

Command line option                | Environment variable
-----------------------------------|-------------------------------
`--cassandra.connections-per-host` | `CASSANDRA_CONNECTIONS_PER_HOST`
`--metrics-backend`                | `METRICS_BACKEND`

## Agent

Jaeger client libraries expect **jaeger-agent** process to run locally on each host.
The agent exposes the following ports:

Port | Protocol | Function
---- | -------  | ---
5775 | UDP      | accept zipkin.thrift over compact thrift protocol
6831 | UDP      | accept jaeger.thrift over compact thrift protocol
6832 | UDP      | accept jaeger.thrift over binary thrift protocol
5778 | HTTP     | serve configs, sampling strategies

It can be executed directly on the host or via Docker, as follows:

```bash
## make sure to expose only the ports you use in your deployment scenario!
docker run \
  --rm \
  -p5775:5775/udp \
  -p6831:6831/udp \
  -p6832:6832/udp \
  -p5778:5778/tcp \
  jaegertracing/jaeger-agent:{{< currentVersion >}}
```

### Discovery System Integration

The agents can connect point to point to a single collector address, which could be
load balanced by another infrastructure component (e.g. DNS) across multiple collectors.
The agent can also be configured with a static list of collector addresses.

On Docker, a command like the following can be used:

```bash
docker run \
  --rm \
  -p5775:5775/udp \
  -p6831:6831/udp \
  -p6832:6832/udp \
  -p5778:5778/tcp \
  jaegertracing/jaeger-agent:{{< currentVersion >}} \
  --collector.host-port=jaeger-collector.jaeger-infra.svc:14267
```

In the future we will support different service discovery systems to dynamically load balance
across several collectors ([issue 213](https://github.com/jaegertracing/jaeger/issues/213)).

## Collectors

The collectors are stateless and thus many instances of **jaeger-collector** can be run in parallel.
Collectors require almost no configuration, except for the location of Cassandra cluster,
via `--cassandra.keyspace` and `--cassandra.servers` options, or the location of Elasticsearch cluster, via
`--es.server-urls`, depending on which storage is specified. To see all command line options run

```
go run ./cmd/collector/main.go -h
```

or, if you don't have the source code

```
docker run -it --rm jaegertracing/jaeger-collector:{{< currentVersion >}} -h
```

At default settings the collector exposes the following ports:

Port  | Protocol | Function
----- | -------  | ---
14267 | TChannel | used by **jaeger-agent** to send spans in jaeger.thrift format
14268 | HTTP     | can accept spans directly from clients in jaeger.thrift format over binary thrift protocol
9411  | HTTP     | can accept Zipkin spans in JSON or Thrift (disabled by default)
14269 | HTTP     | Health check at **/**


## Storage Backends

Collectors require a persistent storage backend. Cassandra and Elasticsearch are the primary supported storage backends. Additional backends are [discussed here](https://github.com/jaegertracing/jaeger/issues/638).

The storage type can be passed via `SPAN_STORAGE_TYPE` environment variable. Valid values are `cassandra`, `elasticsearch`, `kafka` and `memory` (only for all-in-one binary).
As of version 1.6.0, it's possible to use multiple storage types at the same time by providing a comma-separated list of valid types to the `SPAN_STORAGE_TYPE` environment variable.
It's important to note that all listed storage types are used for writing, but only the first type in the list will be used for reading and archiving.

### Memory

The in-memory storage is not intended for production workloads. It's intended as a simple solution to get started quickly and
data will be lost once the process is gone.

By default, there's no limit in the amount of traces stored in memory but a limit can be established by passing an
integer value via `--memory.max-traces`.

### Cassandra
Supported versions: 3.4+

Deploying Cassandra itself is out of scope for our documentation. One good
source of documentation is the [Apache Cassandra Docs](https://cassandra.apache.org/doc/latest/).

#### Configuration
##### Minimal
```sh
docker run \
  -e SPAN_STORAGE_TYPE=cassandra \
  -e CASSANDRA_SERVERS=<...> \
  jaegertracing/jaeger-collector:{{< currentVersion >}}
```

##### All options
To view the full list of configuration options, you can run the following command:
```sh
docker run \
  -e SPAN_STORAGE_TYPE=cassandra  \
  jaegertracing/jaeger-collector:{{< currentVersion >}} \
  --help
```

#### Schema script

A script is provided to initialize Cassandra keyspace and schema
using Cassandra's interactive shell [`cqlsh`][cqlsh]:

```sh
MODE=test sh ./plugin/storage/cassandra/schema/create.sh | cqlsh
```

For production deployment, pass `MODE=prod DATACENTER={datacenter}` arguments to the script,
where `{datacenter}` is the name used in the Cassandra configuration / network topology.

The script also allows overriding TTL, keyspace name, replication factor, etc.
Run the script without arguments to see the full list of recognized parameters.

#### TLS support

Jaeger supports TLS client to node connections as long as you've configured
your Cassandra cluster correctly. After verifying with e.g. `cqlsh`, you can
configure the collector and query like so:

```
docker run \
  -e CASSANDRA_SERVERS=<...> \
  -e CASSANDRA_TLS=true \
  -e CASSANDRA_TLS_SERVER_NAME="CN-in-certificate" \
  -e CASSANDRA_TLS_KEY=<path to client key file> \
  -e CASSANDRA_TLS_CERT=<path to client cert file> \
  -e CASSANDRA_TLS_CA=<path to your CA cert file> \
  jaegertracing/jaeger-collector:{{< currentVersion >}}
```

The schema tool also supports TLS. You need to make a custom cqlshrc file like
so:

```
# Creating schema in a cassandra cluster requiring client TLS certificates.
#
# Create a volume for the schema docker container containing four files:
# cqlshrc: this file
# ca-cert: the cert authority for your keys
# client-key: the keyfile for your client
# client-cert: the cert file matching client-key
#
# if there is any sort of DNS mismatch and you want to ignore server validation
# issues, then uncomment validate = false below.
#
# When running the container, map this volume to /root/.cassandra and set the
# environment variable CQLSH_SSL=--ssl
[ssl]
certfile = ~/.cassandra/ca-cert
userkey = ~/.cassandra/client-key
usercert = ~/.cassandra/client-cert
# validate = false
```

### Elasticsearch
Supported in Jaeger since 0.6.0
Supported versions: 5.x, 6.x

Elasticsearch does not require initialization other than
[installing and running Elasticsearch](https://www.elastic.co/downloads/elasticsearch).
Once it is running, pass the correct configuration values to the Jaeger collector and query service.

#### Configuration
##### Minimal
```sh
docker run \
  -e SPAN_STORAGE_TYPE=elasticsearch \
  -e ES_SERVER_URLS=<...> \
  jaegertracing/jaeger-collector:{{< currentVersion >}}
```

##### All options
To view the full list of configuration options, you can run the following command:
```sh
docker run \
  -e SPAN_STORAGE_TYPE=elasticsearch \
  jaegertracing/jaeger-collector:{{< currentVersion >}} \
  --help
```

See the [README](https://github.com/jaegertracing/jaeger/tree/master/plugin/storage/es/README.md) for an in-depth overview of how Jaeger uses Elasticsearch for storage.

#### Shards and Replicas for Elasticsearch indices

Shards and replicas are some configuration values to take special attention to, because this is decided upon
index creation. [This article](https://qbox.io/blog/optimizing-elasticsearch-how-many-shards-per-index) goes into
more information about choosing how many shards should be chosen for optimization.

### Kafka
Supported in Jaeger since 1.6.0
Supported Kafka versions: 0.8+

In version 1.6.0, the Kafka storage backend implementation only supports writing data, this means you will need to use another one (with the multiple storage types feature) to be able to view the traces in the Query component.

Starting from version 1.7.0, a new component (Ingester) has been added to support reading from Kafka and storing it in another storage backend (Elasticsearch or Cassandra).

Writing to Kafka is particularly useful for building post-processing data pipelines.

#### Configuration
##### Minimal
```sh
docker run \
  -e SPAN_STORAGE_TYPE=kafka \
  -e KAFKA_BROKERS=<...> \
  -e KAFKA_TOPIC=<...> \
  jaegertracing/jaeger-collector:{{< currentVersion >}}
```

##### All options
To view the full list of configuration options, you can run the following command:
```sh
docker run \
  -e SPAN_STORAGE_TYPE=kafka \
  jaegertracing/jaeger-collector:{{< currentVersion >}} \
  --help
```

#### Topic & partitions
Unless your Kafka cluster is configured to automatically create topics, you will need to create it ahead of time. You can refer to [the Kafka quickstart documentation](https://kafka.apache.org/documentation/#quickstart_createtopic) to learn how.

You can find more information about topics and partitions in general in the [official documentation](https://kafka.apache.org/documentation/#intro_topics). [This article](https://www.confluent.io/blog/how-to-choose-the-number-of-topicspartitions-in-a-kafka-cluster/) provide more details about how to choose the number of partitions.

## Query Service & UI

**jaeger-query** serves the API endpoints and a React/Javascript UI.
The service is stateless and is typically run behind a load balancer, e.g. nginx.

At default settings the query service exposes the following port(s):

Port  | Protocol | Function
----- | -------  | ---
16686 | HTTP     | **/api/*** endpoints and Jaeger UI at **/**
16687 | HTTP     | Health check at **/**

### UI Base Path

The base path for all **jaeger-query** HTTP routes can be set to a non-root value, e.g. `/jaeger` would cause all UI URLs to start with `/jaeger`. This can be useful when running **jaeger-query** behind a reverse proxy.

The base path can be configured via the `--query.base-path` command line parameter or the `QUERY_BASE_PATH` environment variable.

### UI Configuration

Several aspects of the UI can be configured:

  * The Dependencies section can be enabled / configured
  * Google Analytics tracking can be enabled / configured
  * Additional menu options can be added to the global nav

These options can be configured by a JSON configuration file. The `--query.ui-config` command line parameter of the query service must then be set to the path to the JSON file when the query service is started.

An example configuration file:

```json
{
  "dependencies": {
    "dagMaxNumServices": 200,
    "menuEnabled": true
  },
  "archiveEnabled": true,
  "tracking": {
    "gaID": "UA-000000-2",
    "trackErrors": true
  },
  "menu": [
    {
      "label": "About Jaeger",
      "items": [
        {
          "label": "GitHub",
          "url": "https://github.com/jaegertracing/jaeger"
        },
        {
          "label": "Docs",
          "url": "http://jaeger.readthedocs.io/en/latest/"
        }
      ]
    }
  ]
}
```

`dependencies.dagMaxNumServices` defines the maximum number of services allowed before the DAG dependency view is disabled. Default: `200`.

`dependencies.menuEnabled` enables (`true`) or disables (`false`) the dependencies menu button. Default: `true`.

`archiveEnabled` enables (`true`) or disables (`false`) the archive traces button. Default: `false`. It requires a configuration of an archive storage in Query service.

`tracking.gaID` defines the Google Analytics tracking ID. This is required for Google Analytics tracking, and setting it to a non-`null` value enables Google Analytics tracking. Default: `null`.

`tracking.trackErrors` enables (`true`) or disables (`false`) error tracking via Google Analytics. Errors can only be tracked if a valid Google Analytics ID is provided. For additional details on error tracking via Google Analytics see the [tracking README](https://github.com/jaegertracing/jaeger-ui/blob/c622330546afc1be59a42f874bcc1c2fadf7e69a/src/utils/tracking/README.md) in the UI repo. Default: `true`.

`menu` allows additional links to be added to the global nav. The additional links are right-aligned.

In the sample JSON config above, the configured menu will have a dropdown labeled "About Jaeger" with sub-options for "GitHub" and "Docs". The format for a link in the top right menu is as follows:

```json
{
  "label": "Some text here",
  "url": "https://example.com"
}
```

Links can either be members of the `menu` Array, directly, or they can be grouped into a dropdown menu option. The format for a group of links is:

```json
{
  "label": "Dropdown button",
  "items": [ ]
}
```

The `items` Array should contain one or more link configurations.

TODO: Swagger and GraphQL API ([issue 158](https://github.com/jaegertracing/jaeger/issues/158)).

## Aggregation Jobs for Service Dependencies

Production deployments need an external process which aggregates data and creates dependency links between services.
Project [spark-dependencies](https://github.com/jaegertracing/spark-dependencies) is a Spark job which derives
dependency links and stores them directly to the storage.

## Configuration

All binaries accepts command line properties and environmental variables which are managed by
by [viper](https://github.com/spf13/viper) and [cobra](https://github.com/spf13/cobra).
The names of environmental properties are capital letters and characters `-` and `.` are replaced with `_`.
To list all configuration properties call `jaeger-binary -h`.

[cqlsh]: http://cassandra.apache.org/doc/latest/tools/cqlsh.html

Commit message:

Clarify archived traces
Signed-off-by: Pavol Loffay <ploffay@redhat.com>

content/docs/1.7/deployment.md, after:

---
title: Deployment
weight: 7
---

The main Jaeger backend components are released as Docker images on Docker Hub:

Component             | Repository
--------------------- | ---
**jaeger-agent**      | [hub.docker.com/r/jaegertracing/jaeger-agent/](https://hub.docker.com/r/jaegertracing/jaeger-agent/)
**jaeger-collector**  | [hub.docker.com/r/jaegertracing/jaeger-collector/](https://hub.docker.com/r/jaegertracing/jaeger-collector/)
**jaeger-query**      | [hub.docker.com/r/jaegertracing/jaeger-query/](https://hub.docker.com/r/jaegertracing/jaeger-query/)

There are orchestration templates for running Jaeger with:

  * Kubernetes: [github.com/jaegertracing/jaeger-kubernetes](https://github.com/jaegertracing/jaeger-kubernetes),
  * OpenShift: [github.com/jaegertracing/jaeger-openshift](https://github.com/jaegertracing/jaeger-openshift).

## Configuration Options

Jaeger binaries can be configured in a number of ways (in the order of decreasing priority):

  * command line arguments,
  * environment variables,
  * configuration files in JSON, TOML, YAML, HCL, or Java properties formats.

To see the complete list of options, run the binary with `help` command. Options that are specific to a certain storage backend are only listed if the storage type is selected. For example, to see all available options in the Collector with Cassandra storage:

```
$ docker run --rm \
    -e SPAN_STORAGE_TYPE=cassandra \
    jaegertracing/jaeger-collector:{{< currentVersion >}} \
    help
```

In order to provide configuration parameters via environment variables, find the respective command line option and convert its name to UPPER_SNAKE_CASE, for example:

Command line option                | Environment variable
-----------------------------------|-------------------------------
`--cassandra.connections-per-host` | `CASSANDRA_CONNECTIONS_PER_HOST`
`--metrics-backend`                | `METRICS_BACKEND`

## Agent

Jaeger client libraries expect **jaeger-agent** process to run locally on each host.
The agent exposes the following ports:

Port | Protocol | Function
---- | -------  | ---
5775 | UDP      | accept zipkin.thrift over compact thrift protocol
6831 | UDP      | accept jaeger.thrift over compact thrift protocol
6832 | UDP      | accept jaeger.thrift over binary thrift protocol
5778 | HTTP     | serve configs, sampling strategies

It can be executed directly on the host or via Docker, as follows:

```bash
## make sure to expose only the ports you use in your deployment scenario!
docker run \
  --rm \
  -p5775:5775/udp \
  -p6831:6831/udp \
  -p6832:6832/udp \
  -p5778:5778/tcp \
  jaegertracing/jaeger-agent:{{< currentVersion >}}
```

### Discovery System Integration

The agents can connect point to point to a single collector address, which could be
load balanced by another infrastructure component (e.g. DNS) across multiple collectors.
The agent can also be configured with a static list of collector addresses.

On Docker, a command like the following can be used:

```bash
docker run \
  --rm \
  -p5775:5775/udp \
  -p6831:6831/udp \
  -p6832:6832/udp \
  -p5778:5778/tcp \
  jaegertracing/jaeger-agent:{{< currentVersion >}} \
  --collector.host-port=jaeger-collector.jaeger-infra.svc:14267
```

In the future we will support different service discovery systems to dynamically load balance
across several collectors ([issue 213](https://github.com/jaegertracing/jaeger/issues/213)).

## Collectors

The collectors are stateless and thus many instances of **jaeger-collector** can be run in parallel.
Collectors require almost no configuration, except for the location of Cassandra cluster,
via `--cassandra.keyspace` and `--cassandra.servers` options, or the location of Elasticsearch cluster, via
`--es.server-urls`, depending on which storage is specified. To see all command line options run

```
go run ./cmd/collector/main.go -h
```

or, if you don't have the source code

```
docker run -it --rm jaegertracing/jaeger-collector:{{< currentVersion >}} -h
```

At default settings the collector exposes the following ports:

Port  | Protocol | Function
----- | -------  | ---
14267 | TChannel | used by **jaeger-agent** to send spans in jaeger.thrift format
14268 | HTTP     | can accept spans directly from clients in jaeger.thrift format over binary thrift protocol
9411  | HTTP     | can accept Zipkin spans in JSON or Thrift (disabled by default)
14269 | HTTP     | Health check at **/**


## Storage Backends

Collectors require a persistent storage backend. Cassandra and Elasticsearch are the primary supported storage backends. Additional backends are [discussed here](https://github.com/jaegertracing/jaeger/issues/638).

The storage type can be passed via `SPAN_STORAGE_TYPE` environment variable. Valid values are `cassandra`, `elasticsearch`, `kafka` and `memory` (only for all-in-one binary).
As of version 1.6.0, it's possible to use multiple storage types at the same time by providing a comma-separated list of valid types to the `SPAN_STORAGE_TYPE` environment variable.
It's important to note that all listed storage types are used for writing, but only the first type in the list will be used for reading and archiving.

### Memory

The in-memory storage is not intended for production workloads. It's intended as a simple solution to get started quickly and
data will be lost once the process is gone.

By default, there's no limit in the amount of traces stored in memory but a limit can be established by passing an
integer value via `--memory.max-traces`.

### Cassandra
Supported versions: 3.4+

Deploying Cassandra itself is out of scope for our documentation. One good
source of documentation is the [Apache Cassandra Docs](https://cassandra.apache.org/doc/latest/).

#### Configuration
##### Minimal
```sh
docker run \
  -e SPAN_STORAGE_TYPE=cassandra \
  -e CASSANDRA_SERVERS=<...> \
  jaegertracing/jaeger-collector:{{< currentVersion >}}
```

##### All options
To view the full list of configuration options, you can run the following command:
```sh
docker run \
  -e SPAN_STORAGE_TYPE=cassandra  \
  jaegertracing/jaeger-collector:{{< currentVersion >}} \
  --help
```

#### Schema script

A script is provided to initialize Cassandra keyspace and schema
using Cassandra's interactive shell [`cqlsh`][cqlsh]:

```sh
MODE=test sh ./plugin/storage/cassandra/schema/create.sh | cqlsh
```

For production deployment, pass `MODE=prod DATACENTER={datacenter}` arguments to the script,
where `{datacenter}` is the name used in the Cassandra configuration / network topology.

The script also allows overriding TTL, keyspace name, replication factor, etc.
Run the script without arguments to see the full list of recognized parameters.

#### TLS support

Jaeger supports TLS client to node connections as long as you've configured
your Cassandra cluster correctly. After verifying with e.g. `cqlsh`, you can
configure the collector and query like so:

```
docker run \
  -e CASSANDRA_SERVERS=<...> \
  -e CASSANDRA_TLS=true \
  -e CASSANDRA_TLS_SERVER_NAME="CN-in-certificate" \
  -e CASSANDRA_TLS_KEY=<path to client key file> \
  -e CASSANDRA_TLS_CERT=<path to client cert file> \
  -e CASSANDRA_TLS_CA=<path to your CA cert file> \
  jaegertracing/jaeger-collector:{{< currentVersion >}}
```

The schema tool also supports TLS. You need to make a custom cqlshrc file like
so:

```
# Creating schema in a cassandra cluster requiring client TLS certificates.
#
# Create a volume for the schema docker container containing four files:
# cqlshrc: this file
# ca-cert: the cert authority for your keys
# client-key: the keyfile for your client
# client-cert: the cert file matching client-key
#
# if there is any sort of DNS mismatch and you want to ignore server validation
# issues, then uncomment validate = false below.
#
# When running the container, map this volume to /root/.cassandra and set the
# environment variable CQLSH_SSL=--ssl
[ssl]
certfile = ~/.cassandra/ca-cert
userkey = ~/.cassandra/client-key
usercert = ~/.cassandra/client-cert
# validate = false
```

### Elasticsearch
Supported in Jaeger since 0.6.0
Supported versions: 5.x, 6.x

Elasticsearch does not require initialization other than
[installing and running Elasticsearch](https://www.elastic.co/downloads/elasticsearch).
Once it is running, pass the correct configuration values to the Jaeger collector and query service.

#### Configuration
##### Minimal
```sh
docker run \
  -e SPAN_STORAGE_TYPE=elasticsearch \
  -e ES_SERVER_URLS=<...> \
  jaegertracing/jaeger-collector:{{< currentVersion >}}
```

##### All options
To view the full list of configuration options, you can run the following command:
```sh
docker run \
  -e SPAN_STORAGE_TYPE=elasticsearch \
  jaegertracing/jaeger-collector:{{< currentVersion >}} \
  --help
```

See the [README](https://github.com/jaegertracing/jaeger/tree/master/plugin/storage/es/README.md) for an in-depth overview of how Jaeger uses Elasticsearch for storage.

#### Shards and Replicas for Elasticsearch indices

Shards and replicas are some configuration values to take special attention to, because this is decided upon
index creation. [This article](https://qbox.io/blog/optimizing-elasticsearch-how-many-shards-per-index) goes into
more information about choosing how many shards should be chosen for optimization.

### Kafka
Supported in Jaeger since 1.6.0
Supported Kafka versions: 0.8+

In version 1.6.0, the Kafka storage backend implementation only supports writing data, this means you will need to use another one (with the multiple storage types feature) to be able to view the traces in the Query component.

Starting from version 1.7.0, a new component (Ingester) has been added to support reading from Kafka and storing it in another storage backend (Elasticsearch or Cassandra).

Writing to Kafka is particularly useful for building post-processing data pipelines.

#### Configuration
##### Minimal
```sh
docker run \
  -e SPAN_STORAGE_TYPE=kafka \
  -e KAFKA_BROKERS=<...> \
  -e KAFKA_TOPIC=<...> \
  jaegertracing/jaeger-collector:{{< currentVersion >}}
```

##### All options
To view the full list of configuration options, you can run the following command:
```sh
docker run \
  -e SPAN_STORAGE_TYPE=kafka \
  jaegertracing/jaeger-collector:{{< currentVersion >}} \
  --help
```

#### Topic & partitions
Unless your Kafka cluster is configured to automatically create topics, you will need to create it ahead of time. You can refer to [the Kafka quickstart documentation](https://kafka.apache.org/documentation/#quickstart_createtopic) to learn how.

You can find more information about topics and partitions in general in the [official documentation](https://kafka.apache.org/documentation/#intro_topics). [This article](https://www.confluent.io/blog/how-to-choose-the-number-of-topicspartitions-in-a-kafka-cluster/) provide more details about how to choose the number of partitions.

## Query Service & UI

**jaeger-query** serves the API endpoints and a React/Javascript UI.
The service is stateless and is typically run behind a load balancer, e.g. nginx.

At default settings the query service exposes the following port(s):

Port  | Protocol | Function
----- | -------  | ---
16686 | HTTP     | **/api/*** endpoints and Jaeger UI at **/**
16687 | HTTP     | Health check at **/**

### UI Base Path

The base path for all **jaeger-query** HTTP routes can be set to a non-root value, e.g. `/jaeger` would cause all UI URLs to start with `/jaeger`. This can be useful when running **jaeger-query** behind a reverse proxy.

The base path can be configured via the `--query.base-path` command line parameter or the `QUERY_BASE_PATH` environment variable.

### UI Configuration

Several aspects of the UI can be configured:

  * The Dependencies section can be enabled / configured
  * Google Analytics tracking can be enabled / configured
  * Additional menu options can be added to the global nav

These options can be configured by a JSON configuration file. The `--query.ui-config` command line parameter of the query service must then be set to the path to the JSON file when the query service is started.

An example configuration file:

```json
{
  "dependencies": {
    "dagMaxNumServices": 200,
    "menuEnabled": true
  },
  "archiveEnabled": true,
  "tracking": {
    "gaID": "UA-000000-2",
    "trackErrors": true
  },
  "menu": [
    {
      "label": "About Jaeger",
      "items": [
        {
          "label": "GitHub",
          "url": "https://github.com/jaegertracing/jaeger"
        },
        {
          "label": "Docs",
          "url": "http://jaeger.readthedocs.io/en/latest/"
        }
      ]
    }
  ]
}
```

`dependencies.dagMaxNumServices` defines the maximum number of services allowed before the DAG dependency view is disabled. Default: `200`.

`dependencies.menuEnabled` enables (`true`) or disables (`false`) the dependencies menu button. Default: `true`.

`archiveEnabled` enables (`true`) or disables (`false`) the archive traces button. Default: `false`. It requires a configuration of an archive storage in Query service. Archived traces are only accessible directly by ID, they are not searchable.

`tracking.gaID` defines the Google Analytics tracking ID. This is required for Google Analytics tracking, and setting it to a non-`null` value enables Google Analytics tracking. Default: `null`.

`tracking.trackErrors` enables (`true`) or disables (`false`) error tracking via Google Analytics. Errors can only be tracked if a valid Google Analytics ID is provided. For additional details on error tracking via Google Analytics see the [tracking README](https://github.com/jaegertracing/jaeger-ui/blob/c622330546afc1be59a42f874bcc1c2fadf7e69a/src/utils/tracking/README.md) in the UI repo. Default: `true`.

`menu` allows additional links to be added to the global nav. The additional links are right-aligned.

In the sample JSON config above, the configured menu will have a dropdown labeled "About Jaeger" with sub-options for "GitHub" and "Docs". The format for a link in the top right menu is as follows:

```json
{
  "label": "Some text here",
  "url": "https://example.com"
}
```

Links can either be members of the `menu` Array, directly, or they can be grouped into a dropdown menu option. The format for a group of links is:

```json
{
  "label": "Dropdown button",
  "items": [ ]
}
```

The `items` Array should contain one or more link configurations.

TODO: Swagger and GraphQL API ([issue 158](https://github.com/jaegertracing/jaeger/issues/158)).

## Aggregation Jobs for Service Dependencies

Production deployments need an external process which aggregates data and creates dependency links between services.
Project [spark-dependencies](https://github.com/jaegertracing/spark-dependencies) is a Spark job which derives
dependency links and stores them directly to the storage.

## Configuration

All binaries accepts command line properties and environmental variables which are managed by
by [viper](https://github.com/spf13/viper) and [cobra](https://github.com/spf13/cobra).
The names of environmental properties are capital letters and characters `-` and `.` are replaced with `_`.
To list all configuration properties call `jaeger-binary -h`.

[cqlsh]: http://cassandra.apache.org/doc/latest/tools/cqlsh.html
