---
title: Sampling
hasparent: true
---

Jaeger utilizes OpenTelemetry libraries and collectors to implement different [sampling strategies](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/concepts/sampling/). By default OpenTelemetry does not sample and understaidng the sampling decisions made will affect the data captured for analysis in Jaeger. Jaeger has unique sampling support which other open source tools do not have, these are implemented in OpenTelemetry.

## Remote Sampling

If your client SDKs are configured to use remote sampling configuration (see [Remote Sampling API][remote-sampling-api]) then sampling rates can be centrally controlled via **OpenTelemetry collectors**s. In this setup a sampling strategy configuration is served to the client SDK that describes endpoints and their sampling probabilities. This configuration can be generated by **OpenTelemetry collector** in two different ways: [periodically loaded from a file](#file-based-sampling-configuration) or [dynamically calculated based on traffic](#adaptive-sampling). The method of generation is controlled by the environment variable `SAMPLING_CONFIG_TYPE` which can be set to either `file` (default) or `adaptive`.

[remote-sampling-api]: ../apis#remote-sampling-configuration-stable

### File-based Sampling Configuration

**OpenTelemetry collector**s can be instantiated with the `--sampling.strategies-file` option that points to a file containing sampling strategies to be served to Jaeger clients. The option's value can contain a path to a JSON file, which will be automatically reloaded if its contents change, or an HTTP URL from where the file will be periodically retrieved, with reload frequency controlled by the `--sampling.strategies-reload-interval` option.

If no configuration is provided, **jaeger-collector**s will return the default probabilistic sampling policy with probability 0.001 (0.1%) for all services.

Example `strategies.json`:
```json
{
  "service_strategies": [
    {
      "service": "foo",
      "type": "probabilistic",
      "param": 0.8,
      "operation_strategies": [
        {
          "operation": "op1",
          "type": "probabilistic",
          "param": 0.2
        },
        {
          "operation": "op2",
          "type": "probabilistic",
          "param": 0.4
        }
      ]
    },
    {
      "service": "bar",
      "type": "ratelimiting",
      "param": 5
    }
  ],
  "default_strategy": {
    "type": "probabilistic",
    "param": 0.5,
    "operation_strategies": [
      {
        "operation": "/health",
        "type": "probabilistic",
        "param": 0.0
      },
      {
        "operation": "/metrics",
        "type": "probabilistic",
        "param": 0.0
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

`service_strategies` element defines service specific sampling strategies and `operation_strategies` defines operation specific sampling strategies. There are 2 types of strategies possible: `probabilistic` and `ratelimiting` which are described [above](#client-sampling-configuration) (NOTE: `ratelimiting` is not supported for `operation_strategies`). `default_strategy` defines the catch-all sampling strategy that is propagated if the service is not included as part of `service_strategies`.

In the above example:

* All operations of service `foo` are sampled with probability 0.8 except for operations `op1` and `op2` which are probabilistically sampled with probabilities 0.2 and 0.4 respectively.
* All operations for service `bar` are rate-limited at 5 traces per second.
* Any other service will be sampled with probability 0.5 defined by the `default_strategy`.
* The `default_strategy` also includes shared per-operation strategies. In this example we disable tracing on `/health` and `/metrics` endpoints for all services by using probability 0. These per-operation strategies will apply to any new service not listed in the config, as well as to the `foo` and `bar` services unless they define their own strategies for these two operations.

### Adaptive Sampling

Since Jaeger v1.27.

Adaptive sampling works in **jaeger-collector** by observing the spans received from services and recalculating sampling probabilities for each service/endpoint combination to ensure that the volume of collected traces matches `--sampling.target-samples-per-second`. When a new service or endpoint is detected, it is initially sampled with `--sampling.initial-sampling-probability` until enough data is collected to calculate the rate appropriate for the traffic going through the endpoint.

Adaptive sampling requires a storage backend to store the observed traffic data and computed probabilities. At the moment `memory` (for all-in-one deployment), `cassandra`, `badger`, `elasticsearch` and `opensearch` are supported as sampling storage backends.

By default adaptive sampling will attempt to use the backend specified by `SPAN_STORAGE_TYPE` to store data. However, a second type of backend can also be specified by using `SAMPLING_STORAGE_TYPE`. For instance, `SPAN_STORAGE_TYPE=elasticsearch SAMPLING_STORAGE_TYPE=cassandra ./jaeger-collector` will run **jaeger-collector** in a mode where it attempts to store its span data in the configured elasticsearch cluster and its adaptive sampling data in the configured cassandra cluster. Note that this feature can not be used to store span and adaptive sampling data in two different backends of the same type.

Read [this blog post](https://medium.com/jaegertracing/adaptive-sampling-in-jaeger-50f336f4334) for more details on adaptive sampling engine.
