content/docs/v1/_dev/_index.md, before:

---
title: Introduction
weight: 1
children:
- title: Features
  url: features
---

Welcome to Jaeger's documentation portal! Below, you'll find information for beginners and experienced Jaeger users.

If you cannot find what you are looking for, or have an issue not covered here, we'd love to [hear from you](/get-in-touch/).

If you are new to distributed tracing, please take a look at the [Related Links](#related-links) section below.

## About

Jaeger is a distributed tracing platform released as open source by [Uber Technologies][ubeross].
With Jaeger you can:

* Monitor and troubleshoot distributed workflows
* Identify performance bottlenecks
* Track down root causes
* Analyze service dependencies

Uber published a blog post, [Evolving Distributed Tracing at Uber](https://eng.uber.com/distributed-tracing/), where they explain the history and reasons for the architectural choices made in Jaeger. [Yuri Shkuro](https://shkuro.com), creator of Jaeger, also published a book [Mastering Distributed Tracing](https://shkuro.com/books/2019-mastering-distributed-tracing/) that covers in-depth many aspects of Jaeger design and operation, as well as distributed tracing in general.

## Features

  * [OpenTracing](https://opentracing.io/)-inspired data model
  * [OpenTelemetry](https://opentelemetry.io/) compatible
  * Multiple built-in storage backends: Cassandra, Elasticsearch and in-memory
  * Community supported external storage backends via the gRPC plugin: [ClickHouse](https://github.com/jaegertracing/jaeger-clickhouse)
  * System topology graphs
  * Adaptive sampling
  * Service Performance Monitoring (SPM)
  * Post-collection data processing

See [Features](./features/) page for more details.

## Technical Specs

  * Backend components implemented in Go
  * React/Javascript UI
  * Supported storage backends:
    * [Cassandra 3.4+](./deployment/#cassandra)
    * [Elasticsearch 7.x, 8.x](./deployment/#elasticsearch)
    * [Badger](./deployment/#badger---local-storage)
    * [Kafka](./deployment/#kafka) - as an intermediate buffer
    * memory storage
    * Custom backends via [Remote Storage API](./deployment/#remote-storage)

## Quick Start

See [Getting Started](./getting-started/).

## Screenshots

### Traces View
[![Traces View](/img/traces-ss.png)](/img/traces-ss.png)

### Trace Detail View
[![Detail View](/img/trace-detail-ss.png)](/img/trace-detail-ss.png)

### Service Performance Monitoring View
[![Service Performance Monitoring](/img/frontend-ui/spm.png)](/img/frontend-ui/spm.png)

## Related links
- [Take Jaeger for a HotROD ride](https://medium.com/jaegertracing/take-jaeger-for-a-hotrod-ride-233cf43e46c2) (blog)
- [Evolving Distributed tracing At Uber Engineering](https://eng.uber.com/distributed-tracing/) (blog)
- [Mastering Distributed Tracing](https://shkuro.com/books/2019-mastering-distributed-tracing/) (book)
- [OpenTracing Tutorial (Java, Go, Python, Node.js, C#)](https://github.com/yurishkuro/opentracing-tutorial/) (tutorials)
- [Tracing HTTP request latency in Go with OpenTracing](https://medium.com/opentracing/tracing-http-request-latency-in-go-with-opentracing-7cc1282a100a) (blog)
- [Distributed Tracing with Jaeger & Prometheus on Kubernetes](https://blog.openshift.com/openshift-commons-briefing-82-distributed-tracing-with-jaeger-prometheus-on-kubernetes/) (blog)
- [Using Jaeger with Istio](https://istio.io/latest/docs/tasks/observability/distributed-tracing/jaeger/) (docs)

[ubeross]: http://uber.github.io

Commit message:

Fix doc page front-matter attribute values for Docsy (#912)
- Contributes to #746
- For each page `content/docs/v*/X.Y/_index.md`:
- Set the title to `Docs (X.Y)` as this will be the new landing page in
the Docsy version of the site
  - Add a `linkTitle` and weight appropriate for display in Docsy
- Other weight fixes for the `features.md` and `getting-started.md`
pages. This doesn't affect the current version of the site, but puts the
pages in the right order when using Docsy
- The current generated site files will be the same, except for the
title of the landing page for each doc version X.Y. It will not read
"Docs (X.Y)", though the Docs dropdown menu will still use
"Introduction"


Only the timestamp differs when we ignore the title changes:

```console
$ (cd public && git diff -bw --ignore-blank-lines -I "(Introduction|Docs( \(.*?\))?)(</.>|\")" ':(exclude)*.xml') | grep ^diff
diff --git a/index.html b/index.html
```

### Screenshots

Pre-docsy site:

> <img width="888" alt="image"
src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/24e76d87-5654-46d9-abd0-f39f6dc020fe"
/>

---------

Signed-off-by: Patrice Chalin <pchalin@gmail.com>

content/docs/v1/_dev/_index.md, after:

---
# TODO when cloning for a new release:
# - Replace 99 and DEV below with actual MINOR version number
title: Docs (1.DEV)
linkTitle: 1.DEV
weight: -199
children:
- title: Features
  url: features
---

Welcome to Jaeger's documentation portal! Below, you'll find information for beginners and experienced Jaeger users.

If you cannot find what you are looking for, or have an issue not covered here, we'd love to [hear from you](/get-in-touch/).

If you are new to distributed tracing, please take a look at the [Related Links](#related-links) section below.

## About

Jaeger is a distributed tracing platform released as open source by [Uber Technologies][ubeross].
With Jaeger you can:

* Monitor and troubleshoot distributed workflows
* Identify performance bottlenecks
* Track down root causes
* Analyze service dependencies

Uber published a blog post, [Evolving Distributed Tracing at Uber](https://eng.uber.com/distributed-tracing/), where they explain the history and reasons for the architectural choices made in Jaeger. [Yuri Shkuro](https://shkuro.com), creator of Jaeger, also published a book [Mastering Distributed Tracing](https://shkuro.com/books/2019-mastering-distributed-tracing/) that covers in-depth many aspects of Jaeger design and operation, as well as distributed tracing in general.

## Features

  * [OpenTracing](https://opentracing.io/)-inspired data model
  * [OpenTelemetry](https://opentelemetry.io/) compatible
  * Multiple built-in storage backends: Cassandra, Elasticsearch and in-memory
  * Community supported external storage backends via the gRPC plugin: [ClickHouse](https://github.com/jaegertracing/jaeger-clickhouse)
  * System topology graphs
  * Adaptive sampling
  * Service Performance Monitoring (SPM)
  * Post-collection data processing

See [Features](./features/) page for more details.

## Technical Specs

  * Backend components implemented in Go
  * React/Javascript UI
  * Supported storage backends:
    * [Cassandra 3.4+](./deployment/#cassandra)
    * [Elasticsearch 7.x, 8.x](./deployment/#elasticsearch)
    * [Badger](./deployment/#badger---local-storage)
    * [Kafka](./deployment/#kafka) - as an intermediate buffer
    * memory storage
    * Custom backends via [Remote Storage API](./deployment/#remote-storage)

## Quick Start

See [Getting Started](./getting-started/).

## Screenshots

### Traces View
[![Traces View](/img/traces-ss.png)](/img/traces-ss.png)

### Trace Detail View
[![Detail View](/img/trace-detail-ss.png)](/img/trace-detail-ss.png)

### Service Performance Monitoring View
[![Service Performance Monitoring](/img/frontend-ui/spm.png)](/img/frontend-ui/spm.png)

## Related links
- [Take Jaeger for a HotROD ride](https://medium.com/jaegertracing/take-jaeger-for-a-hotrod-ride-233cf43e46c2) (blog)
- [Evolving Distributed tracing At Uber Engineering](https://eng.uber.com/distributed-tracing/) (blog)
- [Mastering Distributed Tracing](https://shkuro.com/books/2019-mastering-distributed-tracing/) (book)
- [OpenTracing Tutorial (Java, Go, Python, Node.js, C#)](https://github.com/yurishkuro/opentracing-tutorial/) (tutorials)
- [Tracing HTTP request latency in Go with OpenTracing](https://medium.com/opentracing/tracing-http-request-latency-in-go-with-opentracing-7cc1282a100a) (blog)
- [Distributed Tracing with Jaeger & Prometheus on Kubernetes](https://blog.openshift.com/openshift-commons-briefing-82-distributed-tracing-with-jaeger-prometheus-on-kubernetes/) (blog)
- [Using Jaeger with Istio](https://istio.io/latest/docs/tasks/observability/distributed-tracing/jaeger/) (docs)

[ubeross]: http://uber.github.io
