docs/getting_started.md, before:

# Getting Started

## All in one Docker image

This image, designed for quick local testing, launches the Jaeger UI, collector, query, and agent, with an in memory storage component.

The simplest way to start the all in one docker image is to use the pre-built image published to DockerHub (a single command line).

```bash
docker run -d -e COLLECTOR_ZIPKIN_HTTP_PORT=9411 -p5775:5775/udp -p6831:6831/udp -p6832:6832/udp \
  -p5778:5778 -p16686:16686 -p14268:14268 -p9411:9411 jaegertracing/all-in-one:latest
```

You can then navigate to `http://localhost:16686` to access the Jaeger UI.

The container exposes the following ports:

Port | Protocol | Component | Function
---- | -------  | --------- | ---
5775 | UDP      | agent     | accept zipkin.thrift over compact thrift protocol
6831 | UDP      | agent     | accept jaeger.thrift over compact thrift protocol
6832 | UDP      | agent     | accept jaeger.thrift over binary thrift protocol
5778 | HTTP     | agent     | serve configs
16686| HTTP     | query     | serve frontend
9411 | HTTP     | collector | Zipkin compatible endpoint


## Kubernetes and OpenShift
Kubernetes and OpenShift templates can be found in the [Jaegertracing](https://github.com/jaegertracing/) organization on
Github.

## Sample Application

### HotROD (Rides on Demand)

This is a demo application that consists of several microservices and
illustrates the use of the [OpenTracing API](http://opentracing.io).
A tutorial / walkthough is available in the blog post:
[Take OpenTracing for a HotROD ride][hotrod-tutorial].

It can be run standalone, but requires Jaeger backend to view the
traces.

#### Running

```bash
mkdir -p $GOPATH/src/github.com/jaegertracing
cd $GOPATH/src/github.com/jaegertracing
git clone git@github.com:jaegertracing/jaeger.git jaeger
cd jaeger
make install
cd examples/hotrod
go run ./main.go all
```

Then navigate to `http://localhost:8080`.


#### Features

-   Discover architecture of the whole system via data-driven dependency
    diagram.
-   View request timeline and errors; understand how the app works.
-   Find sources of latency and lack of concurrency.
-   Highly contextualized logging.
-   Use baggage propagation to:

    -   Diagnose inter-request contention (queueing).
    -   Attribute time spent in a service.

-   Use open source libraries with OpenTracing integration to get
    vendor-neutral instrumentation for free.

#### Prerequisites

-   You need Go 1.9 or higher installed on your machine.
-   Requires a [running Jaeger backend](#all-in-one-docker-image) to view the traces.

## Client Libraries

Look [here](client_libraries.md).

## Running Individual Jaeger Components
Individual Jaeger backend components can be run from source.
They all have their `main.go` in the `cmd` folder. For example, to run the `jaeger-agent`:

```bash
mkdir -p $GOPATH/src/github.com/jaegertracing
cd $GOPATH/src/github.com/jaegertracing
git clone git@github.com:jaegertracing/jaeger.git jaeger
cd jaeger
make install
go run ./cmd/agent/main.go
```

## Migrating from Zipkin

Collector service exposes Zipkin compatible REST API `/api/v1/spans` and `/api/v2/spans` for both
JSON and thrift encoding.
By default it's disabled. It can be enabled with `--collector.zipkin.http-port=9411`. 

Zipkin Thrift IDL file can be found in [jaegertracing/jaeger-idl](https://github.com/jaegertracing/jaeger-idl/blob/master/thrift/zipkincore.thrift).
It's compatible with [openzipkin/zipkin-api](https://github.com/openzipkin/zipkin-api/blob/master/thrift/zipkinCore.thrift)

[hotrod-tutorial]: https://medium.com/@YuriShkuro/take-opentracing-for-a-hotrod-ride-f6e3141f7941

Commit message:

Add section about client internals and samplers
Signed-off-by: Yuri Shkuro <ys@uber.com>

docs/getting_started.md, after:

# Getting Started

## Instrumentation

Your applications must be instrumented before they can send tracing data to Jaeger backend. Check the [Client Libraries](./client_libraries) section for information about how to use the OpenTracing API and how to initialize and configure Jaeger tracers.

## All in one Docker image

This image, designed for quick local testing, launches the Jaeger UI, collector, query, and agent, with an in memory storage component.

The simplest way to start the all in one docker image is to use the pre-built image published to DockerHub (a single command line).

```bash
docker run -d -e COLLECTOR_ZIPKIN_HTTP_PORT=9411 -p5775:5775/udp -p6831:6831/udp -p6832:6832/udp \
  -p5778:5778 -p16686:16686 -p14268:14268 -p9411:9411 jaegertracing/all-in-one:latest
```

You can then navigate to `http://localhost:16686` to access the Jaeger UI.

The container exposes the following ports:

Port | Protocol | Component | Function
---- | -------  | --------- | ---
5775 | UDP      | agent     | accept zipkin.thrift over compact thrift protocol
6831 | UDP      | agent     | accept jaeger.thrift over compact thrift protocol
6832 | UDP      | agent     | accept jaeger.thrift over binary thrift protocol
5778 | HTTP     | agent     | serve configs
16686| HTTP     | query     | serve frontend
9411 | HTTP     | collector | Zipkin compatible endpoint


## Kubernetes and OpenShift

Kubernetes and OpenShift templates can be found in the [Jaegertracing](https://github.com/jaegertracing/) organization on
Github.

## Sample Application

### HotROD (Rides on Demand)

This is a demo application that consists of several microservices and
illustrates the use of the [OpenTracing API](http://opentracing.io).
A tutorial / walkthough is available in the blog post:
[Take OpenTracing for a HotROD ride][hotrod-tutorial].

It can be run standalone, but requires Jaeger backend to view the
traces.

#### Running

```bash
mkdir -p $GOPATH/src/github.com/jaegertracing
cd $GOPATH/src/github.com/jaegertracing
git clone git@github.com:jaegertracing/jaeger.git jaeger
cd jaeger
make install
cd examples/hotrod
go run ./main.go all
```

Then navigate to `http://localhost:8080`.


#### Features

-   Discover architecture of the whole system via data-driven dependency
    diagram.
-   View request timeline and errors; understand how the app works.
-   Find sources of latency and lack of concurrency.
-   Highly contextualized logging.
-   Use baggage propagation to:

    -   Diagnose inter-request contention (queueing).
    -   Attribute time spent in a service.

-   Use open source libraries with OpenTracing integration to get
    vendor-neutral instrumentation for free.

#### Prerequisites

-   You need Go 1.9 or higher installed on your machine.
-   Requires a [running Jaeger backend](#all-in-one-docker-image) to view the traces.

## Client Libraries

Look [here](client_libraries.md).

## Running Individual Jaeger Components
Individual Jaeger backend components can be run from source.
They all have their `main.go` in the `cmd` folder. For example, to run the `jaeger-agent`:

```bash
mkdir -p $GOPATH/src/github.com/jaegertracing
cd $GOPATH/src/github.com/jaegertracing
git clone git@github.com:jaegertracing/jaeger.git jaeger
cd jaeger
make install
go run ./cmd/agent/main.go
```

## Migrating from Zipkin

Collector service exposes Zipkin compatible REST API `/api/v1/spans` and `/api/v2/spans` for both
JSON and thrift encoding.
By default it's disabled. It can be enabled with `--collector.zipkin.http-port=9411`. 

Zipkin Thrift IDL file can be found in [jaegertracing/jaeger-idl](https://github.com/jaegertracing/jaeger-idl/blob/master/thrift/zipkincore.thrift).
It's compatible with [openzipkin/zipkin-api](https://github.com/openzipkin/zipkin-api/blob/master/thrift/zipkinCore.thrift)

[hotrod-tutorial]: https://medium.com/@YuriShkuro/take-opentracing-for-a-hotrod-ride-f6e3141f7941
